# Death of a 17-year-old teenager with cerebral palsy after his father was quarantined for six days

Originally published in *Sanlian Lifeweek(三联生活周刊)* on Feb. 2st, 2020

Many people had tried to save his life when they realized Yan Cheng, a
17-year-old teenager with cerebral palsy was left alone at home, but the
aids failed to reach the last mile. The daily plight of this special
family with cerebral palsy, autism, and single father is magnified by
the outbreak of the epidemic in the rural areas.

Journalists \| Dong, Jining (董冀宁); Chen, Lu(陈璐)

Translation \| Chengji Translation Team

## The left child has gone

*'The child is gone.'*

On January 29, at 2: 30 p.m., Zhu Wenqin was a little surprised when she
received this message from Yan Xiaowen, without much thinking of its
implications. She thought Yan Xiaowen had said the same thing two hours
ago, when Yan Cheng (the son of Yan Xiaowen) was taken from his home to
the town\'s hotel for quarantine by the ambulance. At that time, Yan
Xiaowen gave her a phone call. She was very impressed that Yan Xiaowen
coughed and said he was \"extraordinarily happy\" on the other end of
the phone.

Zhu Wenqin is the head of \"Snail Home\", a support organization for
special parents in Wuhan. She is also the mother of a child with mental
disorder. She kept worrying since she heard Yan Xiaowen was taken to the
town hospital for quarantine and his younger son was also taken away on
Jan 23rd, leaving the elder son Yan Cheng who has cerebral palsy alone
at home. Zhu Wenqing could only propose a lot of detailed requirements
on the phone to the staff who was taking care of Yan Cheng.

For example, she always wanted the village doctor to take a picture of
Yan Cheng's face to check the mental state of the child. She also urged
those villagers in charge to keep a continuous record of Yan Cheng\'s
body temperature, dining, and defecation, some of them don\'t even know
how to use the WeChat.

Yan Xiaowen, 49, worked in a school kitchen in Wuhan City with his two
children before. The elder son, Yan Cheng, was 17 years old, had severe
cerebral palsy and couldn\'t live on his own. The younger son, Yan
Xiaowei is 11 years old, with autism. A relative of the Yan family told
us that the mother of these two children committed suicide because she
could not accept the fact that her second son was again found to be
\"abnormal\" at the age of 1. It was Yan Xiaowen who raised the children
all the time.

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/image1.jpg" /></p>

<p align="right">Yan Cheng (in the wheelchair) and his younger brother Xiaowei</p>

Zhu Wenqin told us she met Yan Xiaowen in an autistic rehabilitation
event. Later 2016, she founded the "Snail Home". Yan Xiaowen joined the
organization with his children and the two families became acquainted.
Jan. 17^th^ was the last time Zhu Wenqin saw Yan Cheng. Yan Xiaowen and
his children were taking a bus from Hankou(Wuhan) to his hometown in
rural HuangGang City for the Chinese New Year, **She remembered Yan
Cheng was smiling happily, and Yan Xiaowen told her that "both children
have been very healthy recently."**

However, on January 20, Yan Xiaowen suddenly had a low fever. At that
time, Wuhan\'s epidemic had not yet broken out. He thought it was only
the flu. He went to the village health department himself for some
infusion. Three days later, Wuhan\'s new coronavirus pneumonia epidemic
broke out completely, and Wuhan issued a \"locking down command\". The
governments across Hubei Province also carried out a series of
inspections in their prefectures respectively.

Zhu Wenqin received a phone call from Yan Xiaowen at 11 o\'clock on Jan
23^rd^. "He told me that he was diagnosed as a suspected case and was
quarantined by the village health department. He was to be transferred
to the Xinghua Town hospital the next day, where the central treatment
point of the county was set up."

Zhu said that Yan Xiaowen was so depressed because he had no idea about
the severity of the epidemic. Yan was also worried about himself, "If
I'm dead, how will the two children live?" **Apart from this fear for
the unknown virus, there was another fear which was more specific\--the
CDC personnel took away his younger son with him but leaving the elder
one with cerebral palsy alone at home.** Zhu was really astonished when
she heard about this. Yan Cheng once lived at her place, she knew he
could not dine and defecate independently.

Yan Xiaowen said, \"The village director Chen Jingyou told me that Yan
Cheng had to be kept at home because of his risk of contact
transmission". As a matter of fact, the condition of the town hospital
was not so good, Yan Xiaowen had to share a ward with another suspected
patient. The younger son, who was not yet infected, also slept in the
same room with them.

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/image3.png" /></p>

<p align="right">Yan Xiaowen and his younger son in quarantine</p>

Meanwhile Wuhan City and almost the entire Hubei Province went into
lockdown, it was impossible to pick up Yan Cheng, even if Zhu Wenqin and
other few parents wanted to.

On Jan 28^th^, Yan Xiaowen wrote a post on Weibo ask for help "Due to
the worrying that Yan Cheng could be already infected, the authorities
of the village still fail to find people who can take care of his
sanitation and meals, although they have been coordinating from Jan
23^rd^ till 27^th^."

What Yan Xiaowen and the volunteer mothers could only do was to make a
few more calls per day. On Jan. 28^th^, when the public letter was
already posted, Yan Xiaowen called the village secretary eight times
from 10 p.m. to 5 p.m. lasted 31 seconds to 7 minutes. **But they still
did not know who would really take care of Yan Cheng. On the contrary,
the fragmented feedback from everyone made them all confused about Yan
Cheng's situation.**

At noon on the 29th, Zhu Wenqin felt much relieved when she heard that
Yan Cheng had been transferred to a concentrated settlement. The problem
of Yan Cheng being alone at home without anyone to take care of him,
which had been worrying her for six days, seemed to be solved. The
pictures were sent to the Wechat group which was organized for rescuing
Yan Cheng, via the local China Disabled Persons' Federation (CDPF) and
then a manager of China Association of Persons with Psychiatric
Disability and their Relatives (CAPPDR). From the pictures she saw the
professional ambulance, and medical staff in white coats and light blue
protective masks carrying Yan Cheng, who lied on the stretcher and could
not move freely, onto the ambulance.

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/image5.png" /></p>

<p align="right">Around 11:30, an ambulance from Hua He Hospital was sent to take Yan
Cheng to the central monitoring point. At about 12:30, the medical staff
found that Yan Cheng\'s breathing had stopped, his pupils had been
dilated, and he had no pulse or heart rate, and determined Yan Cheng's
death.</p>

There were more than 200 parents from all over the country in the WeChat
group for the rescue. All of them were very excited until Zhu Wenqin got
the message from Yan Xiaowen, "The child is gone". It took her a moment
to think about the meaning of this sentence. She dialed Yan Xiaowen\'s
phone number. He was crying on the other side, "The child has gone to
heaven"\...

## Remote rescue and the last mile

**"Do you know how it feels? It's just like we\'re trying to revive
someone and it's working. The hope is getting bigger and bigger.
Suddenly the result hits us and the person is announced dead."** Dai
Rong, director of Guangzhou *Yang'ai* Special Parents\' Club, who helped
to coordinate the nationwide rescue for Yan Cheng, told our reporters.
Many people actually tried to save his life when they realized that Yan
Cheng, a teenager with cerebral palsy, was left alone at home.

\"We really came up with a lot of ideas." Dai Rong said she was already
in contact with the CAPPDR on Jan 23^rd^ when she first heard about
this, hoping to find a special care for Yan Cheng using the system of
the CDPF, considering that Yan Cheng lives in the rural area out of the
reach of NGOs. Wen Hong, the chairman of the CAPPDR, also personally
contacted the local association for disabled people to intervene in the
matter.

January 23 around midnight Zhu Wenqin got in touch with the chief of the
CAPPDR Hubei Branch, who claimed that the association for disabled
people of the province has already called the county disabled
association overnight, and then the county disabled association
contacted the village, asking them to give Yan Cheng a meal every day.
The village secretary also claimed that he got the phone call from the
county disabled association.

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/image4.png" /></p>

<p align="right">On the morning of Jan 24<sup>th</sup>, the village council and the village
doctors went to Yan Cheng's home to feed him and monitor his body
temperature.</p>

Considering Yan Xiaowen\'s special situation of quarantine, a Shanghai
public welfare organization even suggested whether some legal aid could
be provided. The idea was to appoint a temporary \"agreed guardian\" or
\"social guardian\" for Yan Cheng, under the revised *General Principles
of Civil Law*. This guardian can be one of his relatives, or one of the
village leaders such as the village secretary, who can temporarily take
the guardian\'s responsibility on his behalf. **However, Yan Cheng did
not manage to wait till the moment that these measures take into
effect.**

After Yan Cheng\'s death, Zhu Wenqin and other volunteer mothers
chronicled all the phone calls and conversations with Yan Xiaowen and
people in the village.

January 23, Yan Xiaowen\'s sister received a phone call from him and fed
Yan Cheng once. Since Yan Xiaowen\'s mobile phone was out of power, Zhu
Wenqin contacted her in the evening, and a cousin of her, hoping that
they can visit Yan Cheng again. But the cousin said it was already 8:30
pm, which was too late and he would try to go there tomorrow.

Jan 24^th^ morning, Yan Xiaowen's sister went to see Yancheng again to
feed some food. She said Yan Cheng "was OK". Village principle Chen
Jingyou also claimed he "went there once and fed a meal".

Jan 25th, the village doctor came to Yan Cheng's home and "took a look
around but didn\'t enter". Another volunteer nicknamed 'NuanNuan Mom'
sent a message on WeChat asking the village principle and the town
hospital to take care of the kid. The villager principle did not reply.

Jan 26th evening, the village council, the director of the town hospital
and civil affairs staff of the county went to visit Yan Cheng, and fed
him some egg cakes.

Yan Xiaowen\'s sister has been sick since Jan 24th. She was taking
infusions all the time at the town hospital from Jan 24^th^ to Jan
26^th^, according to Yan Xiaowen. Jan 27^th^ morning, she was going to
visit Yan Cheng, but was stopped by her husband. **It was not until the
morning of the 28^th^ that she paid a visit to Yan Cheng, together with
the village principle Chen Jingyou and the village doctors. Zhu Wenqin
got their feedback that Yan Cheng was \"wet all over his body\".**

Yan Xiaowen's sister later described Yan Cheng\'s state at that time to
other media. "He was lying in a chair, with his head hanging outside.
His mouth and face were covered with dirty stuff. So was his quilt. I
brought some hot water with me so I wiped his face and his mouth clean,
changed a diaper for him and fed him a half cup of water. He ate almost
a half cup of rice, and then stopped eating."

**"From January 28^th^, Yan Cheng was not able to take in any food. On
that evening, Chen Jingyou (the village principle) brought the village
doctors to his home and fed him two glasses of amino acids; On the
morning of Jan 29^th^, the newly arrived nursing staff fed Yan Cheng two
cups of amino acids ..."**

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/image2.png" />

<p align="right">On the evening of Jan 28<sup>th</sup>, the village principle brought village
doctors to check Yan Cheng's body temperature.</p>

Zhu Wenqin told us that Yan Cheng had the opportunity to be taken into
hospital on Jan 26^th^. At 9 pm that night, Yan Cheng was arranged by
the civil affairs department to take a body exam at the town hospital.
Zhu Wenqin called the village secretary at that time to ask if Yan Cheng
could stay in the town hospital. But the village secretary responded,
"Such a child without ability to live on his own... His father is a
suspected patient of the novel coronavirus. He is a highly dangerous
person with high infectivity. The town hospital is not a quarantine
point. There are no protective measures. If he can not control his
defecation, it will contaminate the whole ward as we clean it up." As a
result, Yan Cheng was carried home again after midnight.

Yan Xiaowen mentioned in his requesting letter that the reason no one in
the village wanted to take care of Yan Cheng was due to the lack of
necessary protective tools. "Because the child had close contact with
me, and had a low temperature fever once, and was also classified as a
suspected case and was quarantined at home, also because there were no
protective devices, it was impossible to arrange personnel to stay there
all the time and take care of his meals, defecations and sanitations. I
hope someone can donate necessary protective equipment." In some of the
rescue pictures that Zhu wenqin collected, we can see that the
protective equipment that was accessible to villagers only includes
masks, raincoats and plastic sheets. Yan Xiaowen provided the phone
number of Liu Zhenglei, a doctor in the town hospital in his letter,
however he claimed "there was no equipment being sent over here" in his
previous interview with the media.

Yan's Village is located more than 150 kilometers northwest of Huanggang
City, and 120 kilometers from Wuhan. More than one year ago, Zhu Wenqin
went there with Yan Xiaowen and his sons. She did not have much
impression on the village. But it was clear that Yan Xiaowen's family
was not rich among the villagers. They were living in a three-room house
which was built in the 'Precise Poverty Alleviation Project' by the
government. Inside their house there was no decoration and no heater.
This is where Yan Cheng spent the last six days of his life.

A person named Li from the Hong'an County Disabled Persons\' Federation
told us that the Disabled Persons\' Federation in the county did receive
a request from higher administrations. However, in the practical rescue
process, their federation could only play a supplementary role. He said
"It is not convenient to reveal exactly what we did because this matter
is still under investigation." One group leader in Yan's village
expressed his opinion that "There are only 3 officers in the village,
but there are dozens of families who work outside and come back at this
time. It costs a great amount of effort to count the quarantine
situations and body temperatures of people. Higher officers check their
data twice a day, and emphasize the responsibility of any hidden or leak
constantly when they have meetings. Meanwhile, the village officers are
required to organize the villagers to block the road or set up
checkpoints. It was impossible to concentrate on Yan Xiaowen's family
when faced with such a terrible epidemic."

## Tragedy of special families

Compared to the anger of the outside world when people heard the news
that Yan Cheng passed away, there was more negative and sadness in the
WeChat group mainly composed of parents of autistic children. For many
of them, it is their first time to experience such a rescue. It was
usually a broken family or financial problems before. **"Moms talk about
the most these days is what if it's my child?", said Dai Rong.**

After Yan Cheng passed away, Yan Xiaowen, who was still quarantined in
the town hospital, was asked to sign a 'power of attorney'. "The dead
body must be burnt within 24 hours", the officer told him like this,
according to Yan Xiaowen, "This is based on the instructions and the
regulations of the government."

But soon Yan Xiaowen realized that once he signed it, he would never see
his son again. He invited a crowd of journalists into a WeChat group,
and claimed "The signature of attorney was done under force. I hope, at
least, my son's body is well preserved, and let me see him again after I
leave the hospital. If possible, I also like to donate the body."

**He has been taken good care of for 17 years. Zhu Wenqin had known them
for nearly nine years and had never seen either of sons have a little
dirt. "Yan Cheng couldn\'t move his entire body, but his daily clothes,
including the pillow towels, were changed every day. It\'s really hard
for Yan Cheng's father." She said she didn\'t know whether it is because
she is also the parent of an autistic child, she has a good impression
of both children. "Yan Cheng was just a kid who smiled a lot. As long as
you talk to him, he would smile at you, and screamed 'Mom' whoever he
sees.**

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/image6.png" /></p>

<p align="right">Yan Cheng</p>

Yan Xiaowen has been living in Wuhan since Yan Cheng\'s birth. There's
only a 20-day difference between the birth of Zhu Wenqin's son and Yan
Xiaowen's younger son. She understands Yan Xiaowen's thought, "big
cities have relatively more resources for rehabilitation, which means a
better rehabilitation environment, and it's more convenient for people
to support each other."

**Like many autistic or other special families, they devoted almost all
their energy to rehabilitating their two children.** They founded the
'Snail Home' together in 2016, turning a 100-square-meter house
completely into a room for activities. Children do musical training and
African drumming every afternoon, accompanied by their parents. A
double-layer bed was put on the balcony. If everything had gone well,
Yan Xiaowen's family would be resettled there in about half a month.

February 1 morning, the headquarter of new coronavirus pneumonia control
of Hong'an County announced that, Yan Cheng, who had a close contact
with the CoVID19 patient Yan Xiaowen, was confirmed to be dead in the
town's central observation point on January 29. The cause of death is
under experts' investigation.

According to the 'United Investigation Team', Yan Xiaowen was unable to
take care of Yan Cheng\'s daily life because of the quarantine during
this period. Then he entrusted his relatives, village officers and
village doctors to look after Yan Cheng. All of them took some care of
Yan Cheng every day. But some officers did not fulfill their duties. The
CCP branch and the government of the Huajiahe town, did not exhibit an
appropriate attitude and did not do real jobs. The CCP secretary and the
head of the town have already been deposed.

The National Health Commission held a press conference on the afternoon
of Jan 31^st^. The Director of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, Chen
Yueliang, said that the Ministry of Civil Affairs and the National
Health Commission recently issued an "Urgent Notice on Further
Mobilizing Urban and Rural Community Organizations to Control the nCov
Pneumonia", in which a more explicit request was made and required more
support for families whose members are in the quarantine.

Dai Rong said that their parents\' group of mentally disordered people
would have their own reflections. Maybe every parent in such a family
understands what they mean to their children, and also understands the
social support for mentally disordered people is far from enough.
However, people sometimes unavoidably neglect some problems. "If this
difficulty happens in the normal time, we may think at most we can send
a volunteer or a car to the village and take the kid out. **This is an
extreme case indeed, but does it indicate that there may be more
potential tragedies like this in the vast rural environments?**"

**Dai Rong hoped that the tragedy would teach us a lesson \"The
difficulties these families might face in normal times may be just some
difficulties, but if the society does not pay enough attention to them,
they will be magnified to become disasters in a particular period."**
