# 300 Million Chickens Facing Feed Shortage in Hubei

Originally published in *Sanlian Lifeweek(三联生活周刊)* on Jan. 31th, 2020

Affected by the lockdown of cities, more than 300 million chickens in
Hubei province are about to run out of feed, according to Hubei Poultry
Association. The poultry association mentioned in a letter that, as
Hubei\'s inbound and outbound transportation was already interrupted,
the supply of poultry feed and raw materials for producing feed was
basically paralyzed, and they called for urgent support from state-owned
manufacturing companies.

When hot topics on hardcore \"speeches\" by village secretaries as well
as local-flavoured banners and slogans calling for fight against
SARS-CoV-2 (formerly known as 2019 novel coronavirus, 2019-nCoV) sweep
across the Internet, attention shall also be paid to the winding roads
in the farm fields, and this is a part of ensuring a functioning social
system. **The most intuitive connection is that, such winding roads
are critical to the stability and order of \"shopping basket program\"
(non-staple food supply project). Only when the non-staple food is
produced, transported, and supplied, can the functioning of the
grassroots society be maintained to the greatest extent in the current
SARS-CoV-2 outbreak situation, thus to reduce economic losses.**

Reporter \| Yang, Lu (杨璐); Li, Xiaojie (李晓洁)

Translation \| Chengji Translation Team

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/image6.png" /></p>

<p align="center">"New Year Visits Do Harm to Others, Dinner Parties Are to Court Death"</p>

## Feed bottom out due to road-blocking

Zhou Ping, a truck driver from Xiantao, spends most of his time
delivering feed to chicken farmers living in surrounding counties. He
also owns a chicken farm. On January 30, just after the 5th day of the
lunar new year, he already felt deeply worried about the situation. A
couple of other farmers and Zhou Ping were elected as representatives
for reporting to the government the situation that, **as roads in
rural areas were blocked, their chickens were about to starve to death
if the feed still cannot be delivered into this region.**

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/image3.png" /></p>

<p align="center">Upper banner: "Dropping by is Mutual Killing, Going to Parties is
Suicide"</p>

<p align="center">Lower banner: "All Dinner Invitations Now are from people who want to
murder you"</p>

Immediately after the lockdown of Wuhan at 10 am on January 23, other
cities in Hubei followed suit, and adopted traffic control measures.
In Chibi city, traffic was banned from all national, provincial and
county roads. Traffic control continues to be implemented to the three
bridges in the city (except approved vehicles for supply assurance,
emergency as well as virus prevention and control). Violators will be
fined 200 to 2,000 RMB, and meanwhile, may be held in detention for
public security reasons for up to 15 days.

**Besides the traffic control notice issued by the government, those
small roads connecting villages to the county like capillaries have
also been barricaded by villagers.** Guoguo, who returned to the
countryside of Chibi for the New Year, told reporters of the Magazine,
\"Since day one of the Lunar New Year, all roads to entrances of each
village have been blocked, some with mud mounds, some with farm
trucks, and others with roadblocks and railings, etc. Because vehicles
are banned, people can only go out on foot or by bike. The city is
completely inaccessible, there is no one walking out in the town, and
shops and breakfast stalls are all closed. \"

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/image7.png" /></p>

**Rational road-blocking can cut off the spread of 
SARS-CoV-2, but roads at some places have been rudely dug up, which
have hindered agricultural production.** Zhou Ping said, \"Under
normal circumstances, in order to celebrate the Spring Festival,
chicken farmers will reserve feed that may last for a period from the
24th of the last month of previous lunar year to the 10th of the first
month of this lunar year. On 28th or 29th of last lunar month, we just
heard about the SARS-CoV-2 in Wuhan, and roads were suddenly blocked
on the first day of the lunar new year. No one has prepared feed for
this special situation in advance. \"**The village where Zhou Ping
lives is 10 kilometers from the county, and it is much closer to the
suburbs of Wuhan, which is only a few kilometers away. However, as the
roads to both sides were blocked, his truck could not go out to get
some feed, neither could other feed transportation vehicles get in. If
road blocking continues, the losses will be huge.** Although Zhou Ping
does not know the exact figure of chickens raised in the surrounding
area, it is a huge number based on the calculation of the feed daily
consumption.\'\'10,000 chickens eat 6 packs of feed every day, and I
usually deliver 1,600 tons of feed to the surrounding chicken farmers
each month. There are a dozen drivers like me around our county doing
the same thing.\" said Zhou Ping.

Laying hen farming is just one of the cases. If road-blocking
prolonged, many similar problems will emerge one after another.
Hubei\'s crayfish are famous all over the country, and farmers told
our reporter that, \"The biggest impact of road-blocking now is that
the workers are having difficulties entering and leaving the base for
feed delivery. Fortunately, the amount of feed is relatively small in
this season. If the road-blocking continues to the end of February and
early March, the impact on crayfish farming will be very significant.
\"

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/image2.png" /></p>

**The SARS-CoV-2 outbreak will soon pose challenges to the economic
situation. Large scale culling of live pigs, poultry and etc. due to
shortage of feed supply and sales may give rise to a new epidemic
outbreak, and only with a guaranteed feed supply and logistics system
shall such outbreak be prevented. We should not make things worse.**

## SARS-CoV-2 prevention in rural areas

As the SARS-CoV-2 spreads, such road-blocking measures have been
scaled up beyond Hubei Province. Funan is the most populous county in
Anhui, and it is also a large county for labor export. On January 25,
Zhuzhai Town, which was interviewed by this Magazine, stopped buses
and agricultural shuttle buses to counties and cities. On January 26,
all small roads between villages were blocked with mud, leaving only
one or two main roads from each village to the town for transporting
supplies and emergency services, such as sending out people who are
sick.

**Each village has a checkpoint on the main road leading to the town.
generally formed with a few cars or simple tents. Only local vehicles
are allowed to enter, and all foreign vehicles or vehicles that come
to pay a New Year call are advised to return.** Vehicles of the
village need to be registered and passengers be taken temperature
prior to entering. If a villager with a high temperature is found, the
staff at the checkpoint will directly inform the town\'s medical staff
to come and do a further inspection.

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/image8.png" /></p>

<p align="center">"Entry of Non Locals Prohibited"</p>

Besides the inability to deliver feed, road-blocking brings
inconveniences indeed to the lives of rural people. As the SARS-CoV-2
spreads, some people begin to complain on Weibo. The villagers in Yang
County, Shaanxi interviewed by this Magazine were stopped because they
tried to take a shortcut crossing another village to a hospital for
pregnancy checkup. However, road blocking is indeed urgently needed.
**Compared with SARS, the threat to rural areas posed by this outbreak
is much more serious. Large-scale SARS outbreak occurred after the
Spring Festival, and the virus spread between cities. But this time,
it was during the Spring Festival travel rush, the most frequent
period of urban-rural flow throughout the year.**

At a news conference on January 26, Zhou Xianwang, Mayor of Wuhan,
mentioned that 5 million people left Wuhan, a large number of which
were migrant workers returning home. The confirmed cases highly
reflected this pattern. Geographically adjacent to Hubei, Anhui\'s
SARS-CoV-2 outbreak shows the characteristics of \"one fast and three
highs\", that is, fast growth of confirmed cases, with higher number
of cases in rural areas, among middle-aged and elderly people, and in
migrant workers and workers from business/service sector, announced by
the Anhui Provincial CDC at a press conference on January 25.

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/image9.png" /></p>

**Compared with cities, rural epidemic prevention systems are
fragile.** As of the end of 2018, there were still 46 townships across
the nation without health centers, 666 health centers without general
practitioners or licensed (assistant) physicians, 1022 administrative
villages without clinics, and 6903 clinics without qualified village
doctors. **The Henan village doctor interviewed by this Magazine took
temperature of quarantined villagers twice a day without any
protection, and the villagers neither, who did not wear a mask when
they saw a doctor. The doctor\'s daughter works in a big city, and the
masks she brought home were far from enough. She tried to purchase
some with the help of overseas friends, but the courier now can only
deliver to the county more than ten kilometers away from the
village.**\"Every village is locked down, and road conditions vary
every day. It is impossible to walk to the county from the village.
\"said the village doctor\'s daughter.

**Given the condition of the current medical and virus prevention
system as well as the condition of infrastructure in rural areas, road
blocking is the most effective means with the lowest cost.** Urban
people feel it incredible when they see on the Internet that farmers
are blocking roads with huge mounds and agricultural trucks, for
example, some netizens have left messages asking why not to use a
movable fence? People with living experiences in rural areas may
understand that, there is plenty of free soil in the rural areas, and
blocking road with soil is a typical use of local materials.

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/image10.png" /></p>

Cheng Cunwang is a PhD from the School of Agricultural Economics and
Rural Development, Renmin University of China. He is both a researcher
on rural issues and a founder of an agricultural technology company,
with farms in Beijing, Sanya, etc. for practising agricultural
production. Dealing with farmers and the countryside every day, he
said that, behind the photos on the Internet showing roads blocked
with mounds, the farmers actually have their own flexibility. One
colleague in his company was trapped in a locked-down Shandong
village. The colleague told the village secretary that he had to go to
work, the village first filled the road to let him out, and then dug
it up again. **Letting go or not is not a hard-and-fast rule, and
there is always room for change. This is also the ecology in Chinese
rural areas.**

## \"shopping basket program\" that cannot be interrupted

**Now that there is flexibility behind road blocking, villagers must
be aware that the functioning of the social system shall not be
hindered while cutting off the spread of SARS-CoV-2.** Yang Jun
(pseudonym) is the vice president of egg and feed sales for a company
in Hubei province, and the hindrance to transport eggs has kept him
worried recently.\" Just two days ago, our company transported eggs
out from a county in Hubei, which is about 120 kilometers away from
Wuhan. It took us 5 times of relays before we finally got the eggs
out. We used a vehicle to transport the eggs to one side of the
barricade, and the vehicle could not go any further. Then we manually
handled the eggs across the mounds to another vehicle at the other
side of the barricade before continuing the journey out. Each time we
encountered a roadblock, we repeated the process of manual handling
and vehicle change 5 times in total, and it took a lot of manpower to
finally deliver the eggs to supermarkets in Wuhan.\" said Yang Jun.

**The courage to lock down villages comes from the fact that the
villages are self supplying units, villagers of which can sustain a
long time without going out. But these small units are also an
important part of the entire society, and those roads connecting
villages like capillaries are also routes to maintain functioning and
circulation of the society.** Blockages such as \"for this village
only\" will lead to continuous impact beyond that of the SARS-CoV-2.
Xiantao is a breeding base of laying hens within Hubei province, and a
farmer named Li Qiang said, \"80% of Xiantao\'s eggs are supplied to
the Hunan market, and some are sold directly to Wuhan\'s supermarkets
and farmers\' markets. According to normal circumstances, sales of
eggs would have already started on the third or fourth day of the
lunar new year. But this year, villages were suddenly locked down, and
no chicken farmers of his acquaintance have sold any eggs . \"

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/image4.png" /></p>

**Old customers in Hunan do not accept eggs from Hubei Xiantao, and
sales within Hubei province are also hampered.** Li Qiang said, \"the
road to my chicken farm outside the village was blocked, the workers
couldn\'t come to work, and the eggs couldn\'t be sent out.\'\' Even
if the eggs can be transported out of the village, a pass is required
to get on the expressway. However, in order to ensure transportation
of medical and aid supplies, the pass is now issued only to rescue
vehicles. There are no vehicles at all on the expressway except those
rescue vehicles. **If you don't take the expressway, you will have to
go through villages, like the 120-kilometer journey made by Yang Jun
's company, crossing over 5 roadblocks and mobilizing vehicles for 5
relays. Ordinary farmers have no such resources.**

Such road blocking has also basically paralyzed other cargo
transportation. The head of Hubei Truck Station told the reporters
that, \"Due to lockdown of villages, drivers and their trucks cannot
get out. Some brothers want to participate in the rescue in Hubei
province, but the villages don't let people go, as they are worried
that people may bring the SARS-CoV-2 back.\" Hubei is not the only
province affected by road-blocking measures. Driver Yuan from Bozhou,
Anhui Province specializes in the distribution of raw materials for a
fast food chain. His last order before the Spring Festival was to
deliver raw materials to Beijing on January 19, and then he drove back
to his hometown in Anhui to celebrate the Lunar New Year. As the novel
coronavirus pneumonia spread throughout the country, Driver Yuan
said, **\"Our village was locked down on the second day of the lunar
new year, no one is allowed to enter the village, neither are the
villagers allowed to go out.** I don't usually live in the village,
just coming back to celebrate the Lunar New Year. And I am unable to
take any order even if I can get out, because there are roadblocks in
many places, and you cannot get down from the expressway once you
drive up on it. I have already cancelled orders to Beijing, Wuhan and
Guangzhou. \"

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/image1.png" /></p>

**An urgent report by the Hubei Province Pig Industry Association to
the General Office of Agriculture and Rural Affairs Department of
Hubei Province requesting to set up a green passage for production and
transportation vehicles of pig farming companies**

On January 30, the General Office of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Rural Affairs, the General Office of the Ministry of Transport, and
the General Office of the Ministry of Public Security have issued the
*Urgent Notice on Ensuring the Normal Circulation of \"shopping basket
program\" Products and Agricultural Production Materials*, which
prohibits illegal acts such as unauthorized checkpoints as well as
road and traffic blocking, so as to maintain the normal circulation of
\"shopping basket program\" products and agricultural production
materials. **The \"shopping basket program\" is one of the most urgent
and critical aspects concerning daily life and stability. It is urgent
to curb the spread of SARS-CoV-2, but if it is to continue for a
period of time, we need more detailed planning and guidance to the
people, and should try our best to keep the society running as normal
as possible, and to minimize the losses caused by the virus.**
