# Verbal Account from Wuhan Frontline Emergency Doctor: May Spring Comes Soon

Originally published in *Sanlian Lifeweek(三联生活周刊)* on Jan. 27th, 2020

*In March 2019, Sun Peng, Deputy Director of the Emergency Department of
Wuhan Union Hospital, was appointed to take charge of the Emergency
Department in its Western campus. In late December, he was also
responsible for the newly opened Fever Clinic for dealing with the
SARS-COV-2 outbreak from Wuhan seafood market. On the morning of Jan
26th this year Sun Peng told reporters that the hospital had just been
informed that its Western campus was also recruited as a designated
hospital, becoming one of the third batch of hospitals in Wuhan to
receive patients diagnosed with the SARS-COV-2. Here\'s from what Sun
Peng stated.*

Verbal Statement \| Sun, Peng (孙鹏)

Reporter \| Bo, Jing (驳静)

Translation \| Chengji Translation Team

## One of the Most Exhausting New Year\'s Eves

Ten days ago I packed up some clothes from home before moving into the
house I rented near the hospital to quarantine myself. Got there on New
Year\'s Eve at nine o\'clock, I cooked some dumplings to celebrate. I
just swallowed before reaching my hospital because a patient suddenly
got worse.

He had just been diagnosed with the SARS-COV-2 that morning before he
could be sent to a designated hospital. In the morning I asked him how
he was feeling. He said, \"It was good", but at night, things just went
down. For more than an hour rescuing him in protective clothing and
masks, we clearly knew that such a close distance would largely increase
the risk of being infected, but we doctors can\'t have a cold feet at a
time like this and we won\'t. I hoped that miracles could happen, though
the patient was not in a good state with heart and blood pressure
problems, which is a frequent case among the elderly. The infection was
a serious blow to him, making things worse. In fact, the elderly with
basic diseases like him constitute the major part of deaths in our
hospitals at present.

That night his condition exacerbated very rapidly. There was actually a
rescue that worked, but for this second time it didn\'t. We put him in a
morgue bag to get in a funeral van, which is usually done by families of
the patient and the funeral home in normal cases. At this particular
time, however, the family's panic of doing so made it our job as medical
workers. Another death that night was also a very old patient who was
permanently bedridden before the family decided not to take an active
intubation treatment that led to a natural death.

It was all over in the early hours of the morning when I came out of the
hospital, driving home. Maybe it was the darkness, the public
transportation lockdown, or the block of my foggy glasses that I didn\'t
see any vehicle on the road anyway. Driving alone on such a road, I was
lurked back to the scenes just now. It has been raining, made the city
cold and wet. I stood in the middle of the ward, with two bodies being
put there. My colleagues walked by and they were all wearing protective
clothing and goggles as we have always been. With the pair of glasses
under my goggles that were always foggy, I witnessed the long line of
patients and heard their families crying outside the door.

Later I sent a message to the Wechat group of colleagues, said
\"Rescuing all night and ended up with two bodies, so tired." For more
than 20 years of my career, it is not unusual for me to spend the New
Year\'s Eve in an emergency department, but there was New Year\'s
atmosphere more or less there in the previous years. For this year,
nothing. After rescuing the patient, I had only the fatigue of my whole
body and mind. All I felt was the powerlessness of not making him alive.
The last day of 2019 was heartbreaking.

For a month since then, I have been most worried about my colleagues.
The other day Doctor Chen Dandan of our department told me after a night
shift that she had a fever, which made me extremely nervous just like
her: she could be easily invaded by the virus when being exhausted from
a night shift. I hastened to get her checked out, praying that it's just
a normal cold. This young female doctor went back home only to have one
day off and texted me, \"If the fever retreats later in the evening,
I\'ll take tomorrow\'s shift myself as planned. Do not let others being
tired out because of taking mine." Such a remark was touching indeed.
Fortunately, her coronavirus nucleic acid testing turned out to be
negative.

Three doctors are equipped for one ambulance to work for 24 hours. Then
they take two days off and work In three shifts. Being responsible for
transporting confirmed patients, they do suffer a lot. For a short trip
of an hour or a longer one of more than two hours in the closed space,
they are so close to patients who are might even on a ventilator. The
combination of their unbreathable protective clothing and the stuffy air
get them so sweaty that they have to get changed and disinfect the
vehicle each round before setting off again. Once the delivery didn\'t
end until 4:00 in the morning. How stressful do you think they are? But
no one\'s ever complained.

Thanks to the rotational break of the Fever Clinic, another group of
colleagues will take our place in a few days. I have no wishes other
than we all staying healthy by that time.

## May spring comes soon

There were only 20 observation beds in the Fever Clinic of the western
campus, because it never occurred to us that so many people would get
infected. I remembered by late December we only had one or two patients
from the seafood market. As the description of human to human
transmission shifted from "no" to "limited", the number of infected
patients we received reached more than 100---an alert for me. It climbed
to up to over 300 cases these days. Among them are cross-district
visitors who live in populated central areas, and they come to our
hospital, faraway in the Economic Development Zone in Hanyang district
to avoid the usually crowded hospitals there. Some are here for
follow-ups. The number of people seeing a doctor here is thus
accumulating.

But they are calmer than usual days. This is also shared by our nurses:
patients waiting in line for such a long time to see a doctor may lose
their temper and argue with healthcare personnel, yet this is not
frequently seen recently. The explanation may be that people are getting
more knowledgeable of the infection and more prepared to fight against
it as seeing infected cases around them. Let alone the fact that the
elderly suffer more from it than young ones, who are still able to walk
and move freely even after being caught by the infection.

There was a man in his 30s or 40s who impressed me deeply. He brought
his father to see the doctor in early January. The latter felt just a
little stuffy and panting, symptoms of a potential fever. But the CT
suggested an acute respiratory disease. I told him it was \"not
optimistic\" but he thought I was just exaggerating for his father had
no difficulties in moving and speaking. Unfortunately, the patient then
got worse and had a trachea intubation done in our hospital before being
sent to the respiratory intensive care unit. Seeing each other in the
hallway, I saw him keeping silent.

His father failed to make it and died. One week later I saw him in the
hospital again---this time, he came for himself. Judging from his CT,
both lungs were infected. And then the same happened to his sister.
Three in a family.

The second confirmed case I received was a seafood restaurant worker who
regularly went to the seafood market for purchases. I was impressed by
the happy face of his wife when our negative pressure ambulance tried to
transfer him to Wuhan Jinyintan Hospital, and she said "I'll thank you
with free range chickens!". Just a week later I ran into her again in
the Fever Clinic. She coughed, no fever, while the CT result represented
an infected lung that resulted most likely from looking after her
husband. She was later transferred to Jinyintan Hospital as well. That
was so heartbreaking.

I saw another patient\'s family today. Her husband was the third
pneumonia patient with unknown cause that I received. He hadn't been to
the seafood market then, and just attended a party with elder friends.
Reassuringly, he recovered quite well. Half a month later, I met her
again in the hospital, and she said, \"Thank you. My husband pulled
through, and I'm so grateful."

All these made us found that even when we\'ve managed to get infected
people recovered, families who took care of them started to suffer after
the incubation period. As patients infected that way are increasing, I
think it\'s getting serious and talk with peers at other hospitals, who
feel the same way. One by one, we medical personnel begin to quarantine
ourselves.

I\'m worried about my 14-year-old daughter. My wife works as an
anesthesiologist at the Hospital proper of Wuhan Union Hospital. Now
that staff are all ready to take the turn, she told me the other day
that it was almost her turn to be on the frontline. That way she had to
be quarantined just like me, leaving our daughter whose school day has
been postponed alone at home. What is she supposed to do without
parents? Who will cook for her? But this is only the beginning of the
challenge.

My daughter wrote me a letter several days ago in elegant Chinese, in
which she expressed her care for me: " As the flu and pneumonia
approaching, I wish you, my dear father, to stay healthy. I blamed you
for going out early and coming back late, and thus occasionally not by
my side. Now I understand why, and will not feel that way anymore." Such
a letter from my daughter surprised me so much that I suddenly realized
that she acted like an adult during the whole week with my absence. With
this idea, I comfort my wife that there is no better time for our
daughter to mature than this particular moment.

She also wrote like this: \"I firmly believe that there is not a single
winter that will not be far behind, and so it is for this winter when
the virus is rampant. " I often meditate how fantastic it is. I've seen
many patients recovered from the infection happily went out of the
hospital, but there\'s no relief for there are still many. Such pressure
and the fear of the disease is compounded by witnessing my colleagues
infected and sent for treatment. Someday, maybe, I'll be one of them.
But for us, there\'s no retreat. You just have to move ahead, with the
most cautiousness of not being infected. I hope this winter passes
earlier and spring comes soon.
