# On site \| Hubei and Wuhan Red Cross Society, Donations Stuck Here?

Originally published in *Sanlian Lifeweek(三联生活周刊)* on Feb. 1st, 2020

The flow of donations from home and abroad to Wuhan is endless. However,
the major hospitals are still dangerously running out of supplies. Red
Cross Society systems in Hubei and Wuhan, which are the main
organizations designated to receive donations, have become the targets
of public criticism. They should have been well prepared for such a
serious accident. But they have had a crisis of trust at the very
beginning because of the lack of professional competence.

Our reporter visited the Wuhan International Expo Center (A) Warehouse
of Wuhan Red Cross Society, which is located in Hanyang. In front of a
huge pile of materials that covered an area of a football field, a few
working staff were going through the procedures, with paperwork and
reference letters in their hands. The modern logistics information
system, which has been developed for years in China, was totally absent
there.

On the one hand, the hospitals themselves are screaming out over the
social media about the shortage of supplies, but there is no reliable
statistics on the whole picture of the shortfall. On the other hand,
nationwide donations are tremendously active yet also faced with
countless obstacles.

Does a global health emergency have to be coordinated by the Red Cross
Society? Isn\'t there a more efficient way to replace the Red Cross
Society which is struggling with serious problems of low efficiency?

Journalists \| Zhang, Congzhi (张从志); Wang, Shan (王珊)

Original Author \| Zhang, Congzhi (张从志)

Translation \| Chengji Translation Team

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/donations_stuck_here/image5.png" /></p>

<p align="right">On the site of Wuhan Red Cross Warehouse (by Cai Xiaochuan)</p>

## Every hospital is running out of their stocks and has to \'scream\' on their own

The N95 mask on Li Kun\'s face had been there for three or four days
when he had the interview with us on the morning of Jan 30th. He would
sterilize that mask with boiling water or alcohol everyday after work,
and put on the same mask the next day. He should have replaced it every
6 to 8 hours. But the hospital was really short of masks. They needed to
save masks for the medical staff on the front line. Clinical staff had
already started to use home-use shoe covers instead of medical shoe
covers. We even saw a short nurse at the fever clinic of Wuhan No. 7
Hospital wrapping her shoes with the long pants of the protective suits.

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/donations_stuck_here/image10.png" /></p>

\"The goods are desperately in short supply. We hardly had any masks in
stock in the past few days. There were only 50 left. We transported a
batch of masks from Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan University urgently,
because we must make sure that masks are still available for medical
staff on the forefront.\"

Li Kun is extremely worried. He is the vice director of the Medical
Services Center of Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan University. He was
informed by the Hospital on Jan 22nd to lead the medical team to
exclusively support Wuhan No. 7 Hospital, which is one of the first
designated hospitals for the outbreak. The clinics there opened
consecutively in two days, filling nearly 200 beds with patients.

The most worrying problem for No. 7 Hospital right now is the shortage
of material supplies. A staff member told us that they had already
adjusted the standards of material consumption many times in a few days.
Originally, they could support the key departments, and then they could
only provide 40 protective suits every day. Now they are even more
strict, monitoring the usage of each specific person. Each doctor or
nurse can only collect the materials once a day, and they must sign for
that.

\"Why is every hospital in such a shortage?\" Since Jan 22nd, the alumni
association of a university has already donated to three hospitals. Each
of them told the association that their supplies could not ensure the
running of the hospital. One of the staff members of this association
told us that the donations were intended for their alumni in Hubei,
aiming to solve their needs. Later they found that there is a terrible
shortage in the hospitals, so they changed their minds and moved the
materials there. \"The first hospital that we got in touch with claimed
they only had enough stock for 1 day's consumption. We sent some
supplies to them after we verified their information. The latter two
hospitals said they were merely \'Level 2\' hospitals, and their
protective devices had already bottomed out. Now we just solve the
problems one at a time as they get to us, and that\'s it. Shouldn\'t the
administration take action as hospitals are asking for help all
around?\"

In the outpatient and inpatient buildings of a Level 2 hospital, we saw
that the protective clothing discarded by the medical staff every day
could stack up to form a hill. One of the staff in the hospital told us
that the protective devices were being consumed quite quickly. In order
to only use one protective suit per day, a lot of medical staff went
into the quarantine zone with a diaper and never came out again on that
day. \"The protective clothing is really airtight, a lot people got
dizzy when they came out (from the quarantine zone).\" The doctors of
this hospital told us that they had been applying for supplies from the
district government. The government delivered supplies every 4 or 5
days, which would be used up instantly. The second batch of supplies
that they applied for has not arrived yet.

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/donations_stuck_here/image2.jpg" /></p>

**A manager of a hospital in Wuhan told us that there were two reasons
why they did not have enough supplies. First, generally speaking, the
city government and the province government would have some stocked
supplies in most cases. But they did not give their supplies out, in
order to ensure the supply of the newly designated hospitals, such as
Huoshenshan and Leishenshan Hospitals. Hospitals usually would not keep
a big stock, so they could only ask for help everywhere. Second, Wuhan
has been locked down. It takes at least 4 to 5 days to collect materials
from other cities and send them to the hospital in Wuhan. Let alone the
supplies from other countries.** \"If the government could give their
stocks to hospitals, and then collect more in the name of the
Administration, it would be the best choice. But now it\'s all just the
other way around. Treating patients is just like fighting in a war. How
could we go through these few days if we did nothing to save
ourselves?\"

The staff at another hospital answered further questions on how hospital
supplies were stored. The infectious diseases department of that
hospital ranks top all over the country. A vice chief physician told us
that even their department would not keep a large stock of N95 masks and
the protective suits, especially the protective suits, which \"are not
calculated with independent expenses. We pay for every one of the suits
that we use. It\'s on the budget of our department. We do not consume
them a lot most of the time, so the hospital will not stock them in
particular.\" He said that most general departments in the hospital
would rarely use N95 masks and protective suits. This time they came
over to help Wuhan in a group of 6 or 7 people. The hospital gave all of
the stocked materials to them, \"It\'s only the fourth or the fifth day
since we came here, but the materials have already bottomed out.\"

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/donations_stuck_here/image1.png" /></p>

## Is it necessary to designate the Red Cross Society to receive supplies?

A piece of news saying \"All kinds of supplies are there. Hospitals with
Letters of Introduction can fetch them from the Red Cross Warehouse\"
spread out on the Internet on Jan 30th.

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/donations_stuck_here/image3.png" /></p>

At around 9 p.m, our reporters arrived at the rumored Red Cross
Warehouse. The warehouse was located in the Building A of Wuhan
International Exhibition Center in Hanyang. Staff members there told us
that they had been operating day and night for a few days already, as
the temporary warehouse of the Wuhan Red Cross Society. Donations from
individuals and companies all over the country, and even from abroad had
been coming endlessly, and were then delivered from there to more than
40 hospitals in Wuhan.

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/donations_stuck_here/image7.png" /></p>

<p align="right">On the site of Wuhan Red Cross Warehouse (by Cai Xiaochuan)</p>

On Jan 26th, the Ministry of Civil Affairs designated the Hubei Red
Cross Society, the Hubei Charity Federation, the Hubei Youth Development
Foundation, the Wuhan Charity Federation and the Wuhan Red Cross Society
as official recipients of donations. Except for targeted donations, all
the donations, in principle, should follow the unified allocation of
pneumonia control headquarters of Hubei Province and Wuhan City. The
official explanation for this decision was to keep the situation under
control and to prevent some people from cheating the system. **In the
opinion of Liu Youping, the vice secretary of China Charity Alliance,
this was an unusual approach taken in a particular period of time, in a
particular area. The aim of centralization was to improve the
efficiency. However, these existing measures failed to solve the
shortage of supplies in Hubei in practice.**

Ma Jianyin, director of the Center for Charitable and Non-Profit Legal
Studies of Beijing Normal University, told us that **Red Cross-led
donation allocation could indeed improve efficiency in theory, while the
targeted peer-to-peer donations from individuals or companies is a less
efficient form of donation. This time, however, many hospitals chose to
come out on their own and ask for public help (donations). Donors also
demanded targeted donations directly to hospitals. They would rather
avoid those official donating platforms such as the Red Cross Society.
Obviously, both donors and hospitals were unsatisfactory with the
efficiency of the coordination and the allocation of supplies.**

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/donations_stuck_here/image4.png" /></p>

In an interview, Chen Yun, the vice executive president of Wuhan Red
Cross Society, revealed that they had quite a limited number of working
staff. There were only 10 personnel in Wuhan Red Cross Society, and a
little more than twenty people in Hubei Red Cross Society. All of these
people canceled their annual leaves, taking turns to work 24 hours a
day, but still failed to manage the supplies well. Even though the Wuhan
Bureau of Statistics had arranged thirty more people to take charge of
the inventory and registration of the supplies, and nearly 50 volunteers
had been recruited, they were still short of working force.

In this context, the mess of supply information also emerged. On Jan
31st, Wuhan Red Cross posted a public announcement on their official
Weibo (the equivalent of Twitter in China) account. In this
announcement, they said that among the 36,000 N95 masks, which were part
of the allocated donations from Jan 22nd to Jan 28th, \"16,000 were sent
to Wuhan Ren\'ai Hospital, and another 16,000 went to Wuhan Tianyou
Hospital\". Later, they changed the information to \"18,000 masks for
Wuhan Ren\'ai Hospital and another 18,000 for Wuhan Tianyou Hospital\".
Wuhan Union Hospital, which was really on the frontline against the
disease, received only 3,000 surgical masks, and was even not in the
official list of supplies allocation.

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/donations_stuck_here/image9.png" /></p>

## Visiting the warehouse of the Red Cross Society on site

The Red Cross warehouse which we saw occupied an area of nearly two
football fields. The warehouse was divided into two parts, one of which
had been filled with all kinds of supply cases and protective tools
including masks, gloves, suits, as well as disinfectants, toilet
detergents, \'Lianhua Qingwen\' capsules (a traditional Chinese
medicine) etc. Many of the boxes were labeled \"Transfering to xxx
Hospital via the Red Cross Society\", and the information of the donors.
There were not many people transporting those materials. Two or three
postal trucks were loading and unloading cargoes.

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/donations_stuck_here/image6.png" /></p>

<p align="right">On the site of Wuhan Red Cross Warehouse (by Cai Xiaochuan)</p>

Just as we arrived at the warehouse of the Wuhan Red Cross, an ambulance
also stopped right in front of the warehouse gate. Off the ambulance
walked down a doctor in a white uniform, who trotted into the warehouse
despite the gatekeeper\'s resistance. He ran to the office at one corner
of the warehouse, with a Letter of Introduction from the hospital. \"We
came over here upon hearing that there might be something for us. A lot
of people in our hospital are working without protections, and there are
only two bottles of medical alcohol left \...\" He looked anxious, and
started to complain in the office. \"Sometimes the donations we raised,
even from overseas, could not get to us. I heard they were all blocked
here.\" He continued after getting an answer of denial, \"My college
classmates in Shanghai shipped 10 cases (of medical supplies) to me many
days ago, but I haven\'t received them even till now.\"

The staff told us, \"In principle, the hospital does not accept
donations directly. For a targeted donation you need to do it via the
Red Cross Society. But if you contact the hospital and donate to it by
yourself, the materials will not be sent here because they are not in
the Red Cross channel, and will certainly not be blocked.\"

**Some other problems can also be found there. For instance, many
donations do not meet the standards. It is a common problem faced by
many hospitals that the supplies do not match the standards.** Xu Gang,
48, is the head of the equipment department of Wuhan Steel General
Hospital. They were already aware at the very first phase of the
outbreak.They purchased a batch of protective equipment in advance, but
it is also almost used up now. Xu Gang\'s cell phone has been ringing
all the time these days. He said he might get hundreds of calls and
thousands of messages per day, many of which were sent from donors. \"I
don\'t pay attention to these messages at all. I just know that as a
professional I don\'t even have any access to the equipment. Although
the donors are warm-hearted, their donations don\'t always meet the
standards.\" On Chinese New Year\'s day, Xu Gang organized several
volunteers to transfer materials from Xiantao City. They waited there
from the morning till 10 p.m. at night, and finally got the materials
they wanted. \"When we went there, we were told that we would get
surgical masks. But it turned out to be cosmetics masks. We could only
put them in the stock because we don\'t need them.\"

## Many donations are trying to bypass the platform of the Red Cross Society

**Despite these problems above, the distrust of the Red Cross Society
has undoubtedly become an important problem which is revealed by the
donations. Then here comes the question, is the Red Cross Society in
such a trust crisis still able to take the gigantic task of coordinating
the allocation of supplies?** A manager of a non-government volunteering
organization told us that many people found them and donated to them
because those people did not trust the Red Cross Society, \"felt it is
not transparent\", and were willing to pay the taxes and transportation
fees for an ordinary delivery. Some celebrities and their fans
organizations also demanded that their donations be directly sent to the
hospital. It is because of this kind of suspicion that some private
groups simply abandoned the official channel, but tried to find ways to
send supplies to the hospital instead.

**In order to avoid the official channel, many charity platforms are
operating on their own independent of the Red Cross Society. From the
material purchasing, logistics to registration and contacting hospitals,
they have specific members being responsible for every step, so that the
supplies can be quickly distributed after arriving in Wuhan.** A private
charity platform ran into a really embarrassing problem at the very
beginning. One of the donors abroad had a batch of supplies, but they
repeatedly stressed that the supplies should not go through the Red
Cross channels, and hoped the platform could figure out a solution.

It was not the first time that the platform encountered such a problem.
A staff member named Feng Ming told us that **overseas supplies, if not
going through the Red Cross channels, would be charged not only the
expensive transportation fees, but also a great amount of taxes.** He
mentioned that a generous person from Japan managed to buy over 3,000
masks, and shipped them to China with the EMS service, which cost more
than 1,000 RMB. \"For masks, the tariff ratio is around 6%, and it is 8%
for protective suits. If people use the Red Cross channel, they will be
exempted from all kinds of fees, including the transportation and the
taxes.\" **However, apart from this, the Red Cross channel requires a
lot of certifications and needs the donors to provide all kinds of
information, which complicates the donating channel.**

A volunteer also mentioned the problem of targeted donations from
individuals to hospitals. Since hospitals are always in a hurry, they
often directly give donors a photo taken of the public announcement. The
donors do not have access to live information from the hospital. As a
result, some hospitals will be repeatedly and excessively donated to,
while some other hospitals do not get any donations. In order to solve
this problem, every time they contact a hospital, they invite one of its
doctors into a WeChat group, and update the information of supplies
there. Thus they can make sure the supplies will reach those who need
them the most. \"These are all trivial things. If we could do the
statistics at the government level, and then make the information
public, it would be easier.\"

## Private supply channels are shrinking

**However, logistic channels are constantly shrinking these days.** \"On
Jan 29th we were informed by SF Express that their green channels would
only connect to the Red Cross Society from that day on. They would not
accept personal orders\--namely, their direct logistic channels to
hospitals would be closed.\" Feng Ming mentioned a case in which the
donor contacted SF Express the next day. The reply was that even if the
donor was willing to pay for the postal cost, he would need to report to
the local Red Cross Society and get the verification. Then he might
contact SF Express again and ship the goods to the destination
designated by the Red Cross Society. \"This means the donor would need
to go to the Red Cross Society once additionally\".

Even though the supplies reached the warehouse, it would be difficult to
ensure the efficiency of coordination and distribution. In the
warehouse, after communications among several parties, the working staff
verified the identity of the doctor who came to ask for help, and
allowed him to collect his materials. The workers told us that they made
an exception this time. They had been prohibited from doing so,
otherwise everything would become a mess. "But they called the
Development and Reform Commission, and they really don't have any
materials left. It is all about saving lives. We try our best to meet
the needs, but sometimes we do not have any solutions". But finding the
supplies took a lot of effort. There was a list in the warehouse system
to monitor the supplies, but the detailed positions of supplies were not
on it. The doctor and the staff went around a corner several times and
then finally found the alcohol. Looking for the masks was similarly a
tough task.

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/donations_stuck_here/image8.png" /></p>

<p align="right">On the site of Wuhan Red Cross Warehouse (by Cai Xiaochuan)</p>

We learned at the warehouse that a special command team had been set up
there, whose members included personnel from the Wuhan Bureau of
Statistics, Health Commission and other functional departments, in
addition to the leading Red Cross staff. But the two sides are not
consistent with each other about the specific allocation of tasks. **The
Red Cross Society of Wuhan City said in an interview that it was only
responsible for receiving supplies. It did not have the power to decide
on the distribution and the matching of hospitals. These issues needed
to be decided by other departments such as the Health Commission; But a
related personnel from the Health Commission said in a telephone
interview with us that, the duty of them and other functional
departments was only to assist the Red Cross Society.**

In the context of such an inconsistency, it is doubtful whether the
supplies will arrive in time. \"All the hospitals have their own
inventory form here. We are distributing according to these forms. We
also know that many hospitals are shouting online.But look at these. Are
these really what they need so badly?\" A person in charge on the site
hinted at us to look at the piles of boxes that were stacked up to a
person's height around us. He explained that a lot of supplies did not
meet the medical standards, so they hadn\'t given them out at this
moment. Those supplies could be later given to people not in key
positions. He told us that this was also why the government chose the
Red Cross Society to manage the supplies uniformly. \"If individuals
directly donate to hospitals, the materials could be unqualified or
expired. How are we going to manage it if some accidents happen? After
we took in charge, there are specialized departments such as the Market
Supervision Authority and the Health Commission that can check the
products and ensure the quality.\"

## Primary Functions of the Red Cross Society, should Include Responding to Major Emergencies

Ma Jianyin, the director of the Center for Charitable and Non-Profit
Legal Studies of Beijing Normal University, disagrees with the Red
Society\'s argument that they are short on personnel and energy, He told
us that **the primary function of the Red Cross is just to respond to
major emergencies such as wars, natural disasters, major public health
events and so on. Therefore, it should have paid attention to developing
their capabilities in normal times, in order to equip itself with
corresponding abilities of mobilization and coordination. In some
disasters and emergencies such as the Wenchuan earthquake, the Chinese
Red Cross Society system did play such a role. But problems emerge again
in this outbreak.** \"The Red Cross should not rely solely on its own
staff but rather on mobilization and should be able to mobilize a large
number of volunteers (who should be trained in normal times), to
coordinate resources in the Red Cross systems in the province, to
communicate with Red Cross systems outside the province, including the
Red Cross Society of China, so on so forth.\"

\"As for coordinating the demand and the supply, building the platforms,
to tell the truth, they should have the capabilities to do these
things.\" In fact, there are a lot of NGOs doing it right now. They can
absolutely be open to and work with each other. Ma Jianyin told us that
**it is inappropriate to limit the task of receiving donations to these
five institutions out of inertial thinking in such a special period.
(The government) can consider special operations, integrate social
forces and open private channels.**
