# Excluded from the Statistics: People Died of "Common Pneumonia"?

Originally published in *Caijing Magazine (财经杂志)* on Feb. 1st, 2020

*Caijing Magazine has interviewed more than 10 patients' families; for
most of them, their entire family was infected. They have to go back and
forth among various hospitals, carrying their elderlies and pregnant
women with them; their lives are hanging in the balance.*

Journalists \| Fang, Gongyiliu (房宫一柳); Li, Shiyun (黎诗韵); Liu, Yiqin (刘以秦); Xin, Na (信娜); Ma, Kexin (马可欣) (Intern)

Editor \| Song Wei (宋伟)

Translation \| Chengji Translation Team

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/excluded_from_the_statistics/image3.png" /></p>

<p align="right">(On January 31, in <i>Wuhan Wuchang Hospital</i>, patients having infusion in a queue.)</p>

On January 26, 2020, Liu Mei's family received a cremation note. Her
73-year-old mother-in-law stopped breathing at home and passed away
after futile resuscitation efforts in the hospital.

Liu Mei told *Caijing Magazine* that her mother-in-law started showing
symptoms suspicious of the COVID-19 on January 21, and the diagnosis
from the *No.4 Hospital of Wuhan* showed that her lungs were highly
infected. However, the granny was not admitted to any of the several
hospitals that she visited, and could do nothing but to quarantine
herself at home until her condition became critical.

After the elderly lady was taken away by the ambulance, the family never
met her again. All they received was a cremation note which attributed
the cause of death to viral pneumonia. **However, according to her
family, the death of the elderly lady was not included in the number of
confirmed deaths from COVID-19 \-\-- even till her death she was not
accepted for hospitalisation and was not definitely diagnosed with the
novel coronavirus, and thus she was just an unfortunate person who died
from "common pneumonia".**

The elder lady passed away hastily, with no decent encoffining of her
body and no farewell from her family. Till now her ashes is staying at
the funeral home.

That Liu Mei's family member died without treatment is not a rare case.
*Caijing Magazine* has learned from various information sources that,
even though the number of patients at the fever clinics in designated
(note: here the designated hospitals refer to those for treating
COVID-19) hospitals in Wuhan has declined compared to January 23 when
the city was just locked down, and the third batch of the designated
hospitals have opened as well, the shortage of hospitalisation
availability has not been fully alleviated. **While the number of
confirmed and suspected cases of COVID-2 has risen, many people excluded
from the epidemic statistics are still struggling to survive.**

A department director at a designated hospital told *Caijing Magazine*
that during the recent couple of days, their outpatient department
received around 120 patients with fever every day. While among these
around 80 were diagnosed with lung infections, only 5 of them might
eventually get hospitalised.

**\"We can only let the remaining 75 patients who can\'t get in go home.
The patients could do nothing about this, neither could we"**, said the
director.

According to the director, in general, a patient with a
dulled-mirror-like lesion on their double-lung CT could be basically
considered a suspicious case of COVID-19, but only patients admitted to
the hospital could be counted as suspicious cases and are qualified for
the nucleic acid paper test. At least 80% of the patients who have
completed the nucleic acid paper test would be diagnosed as COVID-19,
and then get transferred to other designated hospitals immediately.

*Caijing Magazine* has learnt that at least five deaths of the suspected
cases at this hospital have not been diagnosed, so they are not counted
as the confirmed deaths of COVID-19. **This means that the public
figures of confirmed cases and deaths at present fail to reveal the full
extent of the outbreak.**

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/excluded_from_the_statistics/image1.png" /></p>

<p align="right">(The current status of major designated hospitals in Wuhan. The
information has been double-checked by reporters and volunteers from
<i>Caijing Magazine</i>.)</p>

From the current survey, patients can be hospitalised mainly through two
available ways. One way is to queue up in the community (center): after
the implementation of the "distributing by community" policy in Wuhan on
January 24, patients need to be admitted to the hospital with a
"hospitalization ticket (住院单)". They have to first go to the
community to submit CT and blood test results, then the community will
report to the Street Office, which will then transfer the patients in
need based on the severity of their symptoms to the designated
reciprocal hospitals. Another way is to go directly to a designated
hospital equipped with nucleic acid paper test and to obtain the result
in 48 hours. Then the hospital cannot reject the diagnosed patient.

**Going through either path is not easy and each may lead to endless
waiting. Especially for patients in a critical condition, every minute
could be a struggle between life and death.**

*Caijing Magazine* has interviewed more than 10 patients' families; for
most of them, their entire family was infected. They have to go back and
forth among various hospitals, carrying their elderlies and pregnant
women with them. \"The hospital told us that we could only save
ourselves." Several family members of the patients told *Caijing
Magazine* that the lives of their families are hanging in the balance.

Till 24:00 on January 31, 2020, Hubei Province has reported 7,153 cases
of COVID-19. Among them, 3,215 cases were in Wuhan.

WHO wrote on *Twitter*: **"We must remember that these are people, not
numbers." Unfortunately, there are still some people excluded from the
statistics, and their life and death stories are hidden behind the
scene.**

## A Struggling Path to Survive

*\"My father kept saying that he did not die on the battlefield 70 years
ago, but he may die now of the uncontrolled allocation of medical
resources."*

\"The doctor made it clear that my father got COVID-19, but the
diagnosis could not be confirmed because there was no test kit\", Sun
Chen told *Caijing Magazine.*

According to Sun Chen, on January 26, his father who quarantined himself
at home suddenly coughed out blood. Sun Chen hurriedly sent his/her
father to *Tongji Hospital* affiliated to *Huazhong University of
Science and Technology* for an examination. The results showed that the
lungs were severely infected. However, the CT did not guarantee his
father to be admitted to the hospital because he didn't go through the
whole confirmation process.

The hospital asked Sun Chen\'s father to quarantine himself and take
medicines at home, but Sun Chen realized, \"The cases around me are
already very terrible. I must send my father onto a bed in the
quarantine ward."

What does a bed mean? Because of the shortage of beds, Li Kaimeng, who
lived in Hanyang, witnessed his father breathing hard the whole night at
home and eventually died. His father was an officer who retired from the
army and he was the fundamental pillar of the family. After the
unfortunate death of his father, it took more than ten hours for the
funeral vehicle to arrive. They were also very busy and had to pick up
several corpses at one time.

The grandmother of the railway employee Chen Li, who lived in Wuhan,
also sat in the outpatient department of *Hankou Hospital* for three
days because there were no beds. She didn't make it and died after
futile rescue. The grandma also did not go through the whole diagnosis
process and was not included in the statistics of COVID-19.

**A doctor at a designated hospital told *Caijing Magazine* that there
is no specific medicine for COVID-19 at the moment. Therefore the
treatment of hospitalisation barely makes any difference from outpatient
treatments for patients with slight or moderate symptoms. However, there
is a huge difference for seriously ill patients. For those patients who
have been quarantined at home but have difficulty sustaining their
lives, hospitalisation is their last hope.**

\"The doctor advised my father and me to figure out a way to get
hospitalised, especially my dad who cannot be delayed, it may be
life-threatening for him at any time.\" From January 27, Du Hongli\'s
father began to have trouble eating and speaking.

The examination results of *Wuhan Liyuan Hospital* showed that Du
Hongli\'s father had severe dulled-mirror-like lesions in his lungs with
obvious spots. His blood oxygen levels dropped to only 90%, indicating
that the patient had severe hypoxia symptoms.

Du Hongli took his father and tried all the possible ways. On January
27, he went to the community to register but heard no news afterwards.
He himself also had lung infections with a low fever. He borrowed a van
from a friend and propped his father around to find a hospital for
hospitalisation.

***Wuhan 672 Hospital,* which has more than 300 beds, refused to take
any patient without a "hospitalisation ticket"; the newly opened
*Hanyang Branch of Wuhan Union Hospital*, which has 700 beds, also told
him to wait.**

On January 28, Du Hongli rushed to the *Public Complaints and Proposals
Administration* of the district government and still got an answer of
"no bed available". He then went to the *Health Commission* and they
replied that there was no solution but to wait. It's not allowed to
transfer patients across districts, all the patients could only wait for
possible hospitalisation at the designated hospitals in their respective
districts.

Du Hongli\'s father had served in the army for 15 years and had fought
on the battlefield of the *War to Resist US Aggression and Aid Korea*
(the name of *the* *Korean War* in China). He had been a personal guard
for two senior generals. Du Hongli told *Caijing Magazine* that the
whole family is all infected and his symptoms of dizziness and chest
stuffiness are getting worse and worse. He has no idea about how long he
could carry on with his father.

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/excluded_from_the_statistics/image2.png" /></p>

<p align="right">(Du Hongli's father had served in the army for 15 years and had fought
on the battlefield of the <i>War to Resist US Aggression and Aid Korea</i>)</p>

**His father kept telling him that he hadn\'t died on the battlefield
decades ago, but could die now from the disordered allocation of medical
resources. \"Everyday I could only see either ambulances or funeral
trucks in front of the hospital, there's only desperation and
helplessness left."**

It is inconvenient for his father to move. Everyday Du Hongli takes his
father for the injection treatment at the outpatient clinic of *Hanyang
Branch of Union Hospital* and sleeps in the hotel next door. Or they may
go to *Wuhan Tongji Hospital* and *Union Hospital* queuing up to get the
test strips in the early morning. But the daily limit of the test strips
at *Union Hospital* is 100 only, it's usually all given out by the time
they arrive. **Until this moment, Du Hongli\'s father is not able to get
hospitalised because he still has no chance to go through the complete
diagnosis process.**

Ms. Wang, a Wuhan citizen, told *Caijing Magazine* that her mother had
been in a shock at home twice. Her mother has been in the community for
infusion and medications since the beginning of the year. On January 23,
her mother felt unusually uncomfortable, so she went to *Hankou
Hospital* by bike with her father, and queued up for 12 hours before
completing the CT. The result showed a double-lung infection.

According to Ms. Wang, at that time the hospital had no infusions and
even the oseltamivir, which is used to treat common flu, was not enough.
They could only give her mother a dose for a child. After that, her
mother could do nothing but go home, quarantine herself, and live on the
oxygen machine at home. \"There's one time when my mother was in shock,
my dad hugged her and cried, thinking she already passed away."

Previously, the old couple would never have troubled the others as long
as they could tackle the problems by themselves, but two consecutive
syncopes left them with no choice but to call their daughter.

But at that moment, Ms.Wang and her husband were also infected. She had
to take care of her husband who had a high fever. Her lungs also
exhibited the dulled-mirror symptoms. Ms.Wang dialed the emergency
number for her parents for the road to their home was blocked, but there
were nearly 500 people in line waiting for the ambulance. \"At that
time, the emergency department said that the people who called in the
past two days had not been hospitalised either, and there is no hope."

After carrying on until three or four in the afternoon, the old couple
were exhausted but still struggled to ride a bicycle to the hospital.

Ms.Wang turned to call the Mayor\'s hotline. **On the second day, the
Mayor\'s hotline replied finally: \"You need to report to your
community, the community will report to the Street Office, and the
street will report to the Headquarter (of anti-COVID-19). If there are
beds in the hospital, the headquarter will inform the hospital to
arrange and then inform you to go."**

Professor Yao Lan, deputy director of the *Center for China's Basic
Medical Security Research of Huazhong University of Science and
Technology*, told *Caijing Magazine* that an effective measure to avoid
crowded hospitals and preventing cross-infection would be to fully make
the use of the primary health care system to implement layered diagnosis
and treatment according to the gravity of symptoms.

**However, for severely ill patients, every minute is the torment at the
edge between life and death. They don\'t know how long it would take for
the community to report to the upper agencies. \"From the beginning, we
reported to the community. They all said that there's no way, they're
reporting to the upper agencies, but when the news will ever come?\"
said Ms.Wang.**

In the meantime, they tried all the telephone numbers and relationships
in their network that they could reach to. Ms.Wang even called the
police. Finally, the police gave her a fixed phone number, while this
line said that she had to contact the community.

On January 29, Ms.Wang felt that her parents couldn\'t make it anymore.
Ms.Wang had to ask for help again calling the emergency number. The
emergency center made it clear that only when a bed is arranged for a
certain patient could they send an ambulance over.

Ms.Wang recalled what she saw on the Internet that the western branch of
*Union Hospital of Huazhong University of Science and Technology* just
added 700 beds, so she persuaded the emergency center to take her
parents to the western branch. It was already nine o\'clock in the
evening by the time they arrived at the hospital, and the first-aid
personnel said, **\"(the hospital) is very crowded, and there are many
people lying outside the emergency room, There is also no first-aid
equipment, so you may not be able to wait until your turn."**

Regarding those added beds, it is said that because the protective suits
for the doctors are not enough, not all of them can be opened for the
time being. \"Because once the beds are opened to the patients, the
doctors could get infected without equipment."

After knowing the situation, the emergency staff asked Ms.Wang to choose
a second hospital immediately. She begged the emergency staff to drive
her parents to *Wuchang Hospital* in her region. Ms. Wang also went to
the hospital and took a quilt and a hand warmer with her. She met her
parents for the first time since January 20.

Their faces were pale, her father had a high fever over 39 degrees, and
he could hardly stand still, while her mother was lying in the ambulance
taking oxygen. There were no beds and the hospital was not able to
accept them. The emergency staff were urging beside because they had
spent three hours on this family solely.

**At this time, her mother made a decision. She folded her hands
together begging the emergency personnel, "I would only wish to die at
home. I will no longer come out. There is no hope. Please take me back
home.\"** The emergency staff asked Ms.Wang to sign agreement then took
her mother again onto the ambulance and closed the door.

Watching the ambulance leaving, Ms.Wang couldn\'t help it anymore. She
crouched down, wailing on the quilt she brought for her parents.

## A Long Journey to Hospitalisation

*A doctor at a designated hospital in Wuhan said that the hospital
admitted 600 severely ill patients, but none were confirmed. \"The test
strip is lacking, but we don\'t understand why it is lacking."*

*Caijing magazine* learned from the current survey that, patients can be
hospitalised through two possible ways. One way is to queue up in the
community. Patients have to go to the community first to submit CT and
blood test reports, then the community reports to the Street Office,
which will transfer patients in need to the designated hospitals
according to their severity of the symptoms. They need to be admitted to
the hospital with a "hospitalization ticket (住院单)". Another way is to
go directly to the designated hospitals equipped with nucleic acid paper
test and get the result in 48 hours, then the hospital cannot reject the
diagnosed patients.

On January 24, The headquarter of Novel Coronavirus Prevention and
Control of Wuhan issued the *No. 7 Announcement*. All the residents with
a fever should be classified and screened. **Community is the pressure
valve for this outbreak of the virus. It is stipulated in Wuhan that
individuals with a fever need to report to their community, with their
data collected by the community neighbourhood committee. Then the
community committee reports to the community health service center.
Finally, all patients with slight symptoms choose either to quarantine
themselves at home or go to the designated fever clinics; while the
severely ill ones should be picked up by an ambulance.**

As a social worker in a community in Wuhan Huaqiao Street, Wang Mu has
been dreadfully busy for 8 days since the Chinese New Year\'s Eve. They
track the conditions of residents in fever every day. Before 4 o\'clock,
Wang Mu needs to report the list of patients with a fever to the
community. He has also to prepare specifically a list of severe
patients. This list will be uploaded to the district office to which the
street office is affiliated. After an evaluation, the community will be
notified when, for which patient to get hospitalised at which hospital".

The criteria that a patient should fulfil to get reported by the
community are as follows:

- The criteria for fever are
    1. fever above 37.5 degrees;
    2. cough;
    3. fatigue.

- The criteria for suspected COVID-19 are
    1. CT examination results show a dulled-glass-like lesion in the lungs;
    2. abnormal WBC by routine blood tests;
    3. All the criteria for fever.

- The criteria for severely ill persons are
    1. Decreased blood oxygen saturation;
    2. Difficulty to breathe;
    3. Having other diseases;
    4. Older and weaker people;
    5. All the criteria above for fever and suspected COVID-19.

In fact, many family members of the patients told *Caijing Magazine*
that even if the community and hospitals advise patients to be
hospitalised immediately, there is no guarantee that there will be
enough beds available.

The requirements of the infectious disease for quarantine have made
medical resources unprecedentedly tight. A hospital with thousands of
beds available had only one-third or less of the original beds left
after setting up isolated single rooms.

A doctor at a designated hospital in Wuhan told *Caijing Magazine* that
**there were a large number of patients waiting in line with a
hospitalisation ticket, but could not move in due to a shortage of
beds.**

The person in charge of the community where Wang Mu lives told *Caijing
magazine* that in just one day, the 30th, he had more than 100 phone
calls. On the other side of the phone, there's always wailing or
shouting. \"I could only comfort them as much as I could, saying
something such as 'have a good mood every day, the immunity will
improve, and the health will be better'\" said the person in charge.

The other path to hospitalization\--the path for patients to go to
designated hospitals to line up for a diagnosis is also quite long.

Liu Mei said that after the death of her mother-in-law, her eldest
brother, her second brother and her husband were also infected, and
their condition became worse in urgent need of hospitalization. **They
went to *Tongji Hospital* on February 1 to queue up for nucleic acid
tests and were told that there were only 10 tests available per day.**

Till this moment, a total of 10 institutions in Wuhan are able to
conduct pathogenic nucleic acid test. They are: *Wuhan Jinyintan
Hospital*, *Wuhan Pulmonary Hospital*, *Tongji Hospital Affiliated to
Huazhong University of Science and Technology*, *Union Hospital
Affiliated to Huazhong University of Science and Technology*, *People\'s
Hospital of Hubei Province*, *Wuhan University South China Hospital*,
*Wuhan First Hospital, Wuhan Central Hospital*, *Wuhan No. 3 Hospital*,
and *Wuhan Center for Disease Control and Prevention*.

A doctor at a designated hospital in Wuhan told *Caijing Magazine* that
the hospital admitted 600 severely ill patients, but none of them were
diagnosed. \"The test strip is lacking, but we don\'t understand why it
is lacking."

**What kind of patients can use the nucleic acid test strips? According
to a doctor of *Wuhan No. 3 Hospital*, only if a doctor thinks that
hospitalization is necessary, the patient can be hospitalised and get
nucleic acid test.**

**A staff member at *Zhongnan Hospital* said: \"A nucleic acid test is
only possible when a doctor fills in a 'suspected case report card', but
only in extremely urgent cases would a doctor claim such a report
card."**

But what is considered an \"extremely urgent case\", *Caijing Magazine*
asked many people at those institutions but did not get any clear
answer.

Many patients and doctors are confused: 1. *Wuhan Health and Medical
Commission* stated on the 27th that in principle, nearly 2,000 samples
can be tested every day, but why is there always a lack of nucleic acid
test strips? 2. The diagnosis report cannot be issued immediately after
the test.

According to the doctor from the *No. 1 Hospital,* the test takes one
day. \"If I did it today, I will know an approximate result tomorrow\",
but the problem is that the *No. 1 Hospital* cannot issue a confirmed
diagnosis report, and currently the designated hospitals can only accept
patients based on the confirmed diagnosis report.

When *Caijing Magazine* asked which institutions could issue a confirmed
report, the doctor said: \"I don\'t know this either, maybe *Tongji and
the Union Hospital* can. It is also because the patients have no access
to the diagnosis report and thus cannot be hospitalized that their
conditions are getting worse and worse."

As for the statistics of suspected patients, the doctors\' judgment
criteria are \"low fever, cough, and CT results of lungs.\" The
above-mentioned doctor at the designated hospital says that he would
report it to the department, but he has no idea about the statistical
process later. The director of another designated hospital told *Caijing
Magazine* that only severely ill patients who had been admitted to the
hospital could be considered as suspicious cases, which need further
concrete diagnosis and treatments.

**Since January 30, a designated hospital in Wuhan has begun to report
the number of suspected patients who needed to be diagnosed and tested.
The reporting process goes from the department to the hospital, then to
the district, and finally to the city. A doctor at the hospital said
that if a patient dies without a confirmed diagnosis, it would not be
counted as the number of confirmed deaths, but only as " dead of
pulmonary infections".**

\"As far as my own department is concerned, the mortality rate is much
higher than the discharge rate. At the same time, many discharged
patients are not fully cured but require a long-term observation,\" said
the doctor.

**This also means that a large number of patients are excluded from the
diagnosis process and statistics and can only survive on their own.**

Li Li told *Caijing magazine* that after contacting community members,
her father was finally hospitalised in *Wuhan No. 8 Hospital.* But
*Wuhan No. 8 Hospital* is not a designated hospital, it was a hospital
specialised in anorectal disease before.

The hospital diagnosed that his father\'s lungs were infected and
necrotic, and the oxygen supply had been tuned to the maximum limit. He
needed to be transferred to a designated hospital as soon as possible.
However, *Wuhan No. 8 Hospital* did not have a test box, so it was
always impossible for the patient to be diagnosed; while without a
diagnosis confirmation he could not be transferred.

\"*Wuhan No. 8 Hospital* has been reporting for many days without
hearing any response,\" said Li Li. She dialed the emergency number, and
the response was that she could only be transferred to the designated
hospital through the community report, but the hospitalisation in *Wuhan
No. 8 Hospital* was owing to the effort of the community already.

What happened to Li Li\'s father seemed to constitute an endless loop
with no solution.

**Till now, Caijing Magazine has called all the designated hospitals in
Wuhan one by one and successfully got through to seven hospitals while
they all said that they had \"no beds for the time being".**

## Who Can Be Hospitalised?

*\"If possible, we could centrally quarantine and treat patients with
mild symptoms so that the epidemic could be controlled more
effectively."*

In the view of countless family members of the patients, Wuhan\'s rapid
construction of *Huoshenshan Hospital* and *Leishenshan Hospital* is
their only hope.

*Caijing Magazine* has learned that on February 3, the construction of
*Huoshenshan Hospital* with 1,000 beds must be completed as planned, but
the opening will require the cooperation of property management,
electricity department, medical equipment, etc. At present, most
hospitals interviewed by *Caijing Magazine* have not yet received
notification of patient transfer.

**During these few days waiting for *Leishenshan* *Hospital* and
*Huoshenshan Hospital* to function, some critically ill patients' life
has been on the line. *Caijing Magazine* has learnt that even if both
diagnosis report and community hospitalization ticket were obtained, it
still could not guarantee the patient to be admitted to the hospital at
the earliest time.**

The two hospitals have around 2,000 beds in total, which are not
sufficient for the emerging cases in Hubei Province in two days.

Roaring for help at *Weibo* (Chinese social media platform, similar to
*Twitter*) publicly became the final attempt for some people. A family
member of a pregnant patient living near a kindergarten in Jiangxia
District, Wuhan City told *Caijing Magazine* that the lady had been
pregnant for 8 months and the latest diagnosis showed a severe infection
of both lungs.

However, pregnant women are not accepted at the designated outpatient
department, nor is fetal heart rate monitoring available there.
*Maternity And Child Health Hospital*s at both the district and the
province level don't receive fever patients. **A few days after the
family roared for help at *Weibo*, they got the attention of the
community and the district government on January 31 and were carried by
the community vehicle to several hospitals. Finally, they were admitted
to the *East Branch of Wuhan University Renmin Hospital*.**

This is good news for this family. But for other families, the news
makes them feel complicated. **"Is it already the time that only who
shouts loudly can survive?\" A family member of another patient told
*Caijing Magazine*.**

Those who can find a bed are called the \"lucky dogs\". Six people in
Liu Xiaoqing's family were ill, and only three of them got hospitalised
successfully. "In most of the cases, they relied on their own networking
and channels."

Liu's family might be infected at a family reunion. The epidemic was not
yet considered to have \"human-to-human transmission\" till January 18,
and the family had dinner together outside. Soon afterwards, the family
members began to have a fever one after another. It started with the
parents, then the auntie, the 90-year-old grandma, and finally to the
elder auntie and her husband who just returned home. On January 21, Liu
Xiaoqing\'s mother had a CT scan, which showed viral infection of both
lungs.

After that, her mother had a high fever for four days and was almost in
a syncope. \"We contacted many people and found a bed at *Hankou
Hospital* for her to live in."

On January 28, her grandma began to have symptoms, and they tried
*Hannan Hospital*, *Union Hospital West Branch*, but failed to get her
hospitalised. Grandma waited for a day in queue at the clinic and
finally got an injection. But she \"trembled immediately as if she got
epilepsy and couldn\'t walk and speak normally.\" The doctor left her in
the observation ward to inhale oxygen. But after returning home, she
still had difficulty breathing.

"We contacted a lot of people in our network to be able to send her into
the ICU at *No. 6 Hospital*. At that time, we were also urging the
community and *Wuhan Union Hospital* all the time, but we didn\'t get
any feedback or news."

Her father also had difficulty breathing after the injection and was
dependent on an inhaler. Liu Xiaoqing posted the situation on Weibo and
when she got up at seven the next day, she finally received some useful
information and sent her father into the ICU.

Her father said that others might think it is a medical injustice that
they called for attention at *Weibo* and finally got hospitalised. \"But
after all, life matters.\" Later, she deleted the post on *Weibo*.

**At 4 am on January 29th, Chen Xiaowei, who lives in Shangyi Community,
Wansong Street, Jianghan District, Wuhan City, struggled herself to the
hospital and finally got examined by the test strip at *Wuhan Union
Hospital*. The test result came out on February 1st, with two positive
items, (showing that Chen Xiaowei was diagnosed), but when she and her
family went to the community to ask for the hospitalisation ticket, they
saw that there was indeed someone at the service office yet the person
refused to open the door for them. The family could only choose to call
the police.**

The police did not arrive, but it was the Street Office to which the
community is affiliated found a solution. Chen Xiaowei said that just
this afternoon, the Street Office helped them find a bed at *Wuhan Union
Hospital*. "I\'m finally saved,\" she said.

In the evening, when Chen Xiaowei and her husband arrived at the *Wuhan
Union Hospital* for hospitalisation, they were told that they have to
turn to *Red Cross Hospital*. At the moment, they are still waiting for
beds in the observation room of *Red Cross Hospital*.

Professor Yao Lan, deputy director of the *Security Center of Huazhong
University of Science and Technology*, said she saw that Macau had
requisitioned hotels relatively far from the crowd as a centralised
management area for people with travel histories to Hubei. She suggested
that similar measures could be taken in Hubei and other regions to
effectively control suspected cases.

Shen Jun, chief assistant of the emergency center and director of
emergency surgery of *Zhongnan Hospital*, told *Caijing Magazine* that
**patients at *Zhongnan Hospital* all exhibit severe symptoms. "They are
all patients with unstable vital signs such as bad oxygenation,
tachycardia, hyperventilation or Respiratory Distress Syndrome(RDS),
etc." There is a shortage of beds, and those suspected or with mild
symptoms are both quarantined at home.**

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/excluded_from_the_statistics/image4.png" /></p>

<p align="right">(The <i>Zhongnan Hospital</i> team where Shen Jun works successfully treated
a severely ill patient with ECMO (Mobile Cardiopulmonary Apparatus).
This is the first case in the province.)</p>

It is reported that there are almost no beds in the hospital, and the
emergency department is also filled with patients. The emergency
observation room is also full. "Once there is a bed available in the
ward, one patient at the emergency observation room will get in
immediately."

Shen Jun said that the allocation of beds does not depend only on the
needs of the community, but more on the conditions of the patients.
\"Some patients, for example, have been taken to the hospital by their
families and are very sick. Obviously, I can\'t let them go back to the
community to wait there in line. I would just arrange them at the
emergency observation room if there's space. It is not likely for me to
just refuse them until they get a place at their community report, or I
simply ask them to go home and arrange the beds for the patients
reported by the community but with lighter symptoms."

Regarding the test stripes, he said that *Zhongnan Hospital* can perform
nucleic acid tests in fever clinics, and the results come out in about 2
hours, but because of the shortage of the test stripes, only patients
with viral pneumonia manifestations on lung CT could get tested.

Shen Jun suggested that the epidemic can be effectively controlled if
patients with mild symptoms could be centralised, quarantined and
treated. He also suggested that patients at home take two medicines:
antiviral drugs and anti-infective drugs, and try to reduce body
temperature once the patient is with a fever exceeding 38.5 °C.
\"Because there is no specific medicine to treat this disease, you
cannot follow what is said online and buy whatever netizens suggest.
Inpatient treatment is also a supportive treatment for severely ill
patients. If we could make it through this period, it will be over, and
that\'s it."

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/excluded_from_the_statistics/image5.png" /></p>

<p align="right">(Dr. Shen Jun and Dr. Hu Ming from ICU of <i>Wuhan Pulmonary Hospital</i> are
exhausted and sweating after surgery)</p>

During this couple of days, he attended a 45-year-old patient, who had a
family of five. Her parents had died of COVID-19, and her son was
infected as well. The patient\'s condition was very critical. She used
high-flow oxygen inhalation and non-invasive mask ventilation, but the
blood oxygen saturation was only 50%. Finally, she had to be
anaesthetised and intubated with ECMO.

**\"Before intubation and anaesthesia, she watched us preparing, tears
kept flowing down, and that fear made people feel heartbroken,\" said
Shen Jun. There are still many cases like this, \"We doctors are highly
determined to do everything possible to treat all patients."**

Sun Chen, who has been waiting for the nucleic acid test strip with her
father, does not allow herself to be sleepless and cry anymore. She
knows that she has to continue to urge the community, to find a hospital
for hospitalisation, and have to cook for her parents. There is too much
work to do, and she cannot fall. She expects that the *Huoshenshan
Hospital* and the *Leishenshan Hospital* will be completed soon. "We
must be hospitalised. This is our last hope."

(In the text, Liu Mei, Sun Chen, Li Kaimeng, Chen Li, Liu Xiaoqing, Li
Li, and Wang Mu are aliases. Intern Zhang Fan and volunteer Geng Peng
also contributed to this article.)
