# Wuhan Seen Through Food Delivery Orders: Love, Families and Courage Beyond Quarantine

Originally published in *Portrait(人物)* magazine on Feb. 1, 2020

The spread of COVID-19 at the night before New Year\'s Eve led to a
lockdown of Wuhan, China, affecting the traffic from airports, railway
stations, to public transportation. Since the lockdown,, many people
there weren't able to reach their loved ones. Some were worrying about
how their elderly parents get groceries and some others were regretting
of their own absence by lover's side. And for those who made a living in
other places, they were missing the few opportunity to visit their
children.

Virus isolates spaces but not love. Now in Wuhan a secret channel
connecting the city with the outside world is being established forming.
Over the past week, more than 200,000 cross-city orders in total had
been sent to Wuhan through Alibaba\'s platform. They were groceries
ordered by sons and daughters living in other cities for their elderly
parents, or New Year gifts from parents working away for their children.

These tasks were all to be completed by the delivery workers, or the
"riders" as they are usually called, in whose eyes are reflected an
interconnected Wuhan.

Journalists \| Ding, Wei (丁畏)

Translation \| Chengji Translation Team

## For Moms and Dads

Alibaba\'s data shows that thirty thousands of the \"cross-city orders\"
in Wuhan are sent to the elderly by sons and daughters working away. The
virus' outbreak during the Spring Festival has rendered Wuhan a hometown
they want but can not return. And their parents stayed in the city
remained their deepest concerns.

*Oral account from Feng Qingyuan, a 40-year-old male rider.*

Not long before the Spring Festival, I went home once, and then came
back to work. Getting up early in the New Year's Eve and reading the
news that Wuhan was to be locked down, I decided to not take the risk of
potentially bringing the virus home by staying with a family of elder
people.

Not being able to spend the Spring Festival at home, I received many
calls from my parents, brothers and sisters and even distant relatives
who haven\'t seen me for a great long time. My daughter, who cares about
me so much, phones me twice a day\--one in the morning and another at
night\--to make sure that I'm okay.

I was afraid of the outbreak of course. Coming back from work and lying
in my bed, I couldn\'t sleep until 5:00 or 6:00 in the morning. Yet
someone\'s got to do something at this particular time. As doctors are
at the frontline to save lives, I myself should also stick to my post
for people in this city.

Thinking about the people and things I've met these days as I cycle
along the empty street, I feel hopeful indeed.

One day I received an order delivering fruits and vegetables from Hema
Supermarkt to an old couple. The shop told me that the order quickly
taken and arranged by their customer service personnel was from a woman
in her forties, whose parents were living in Wuhan while herself was in
Shanghai.

Because of the shortage of grocery, the parents have been eating
leftovers for days. According to the shop assistant, the lady cried on
the phone and it was an urgent.

An old man with grey hair wearing the mask opened the door for me when I
went upstairs. He was a little hunchbacked, constantly saying "thank
you" and insisted to give me two masks. It was later said that his
daughter, the lady who phoned, made a special call to thank Hema for
their service. We all have parents, and I know how she feels.

The job I\'ve been doing has always been mundane and trivial, but this
particular period of time suddenly makes my work much more meaningful by
assigning me missions for people's loved ones. Many orders come with
special notes.

Notes like telling parents to wear masks are specifically intended, with
the worry and anxiety of their children. I can deliver such information.
But there are also those without specials requests such as \"For Mom and
Dad, please.\" \" Thank you so much for delivering this to my mom and
dad at home.\" and \"The lockdown of Wuhan prevents us from coming back
to visit parents. Thanks for your work.\"

At first I wondered what was the point of writing this, and what can I
do?

But then I figured out that the notes were perhaps just a way of
comforts and catharsis. Missing parents but couldn't tell them to their
face, they wrote down their careness which could be seen by me, the one
who would meet their parents. Every time I went out to deliver, I felt a
great responsibility on my shoulder. Objects I carried mean more than
objects. There is a deep emotional attachment to them.

A young man in Shandong Province ordered "84" disinfectant to his family
in Wuhan. A little girl in Beijing told me over the phone that it was
hard to find the way there, and that she would not hang up until the
delivery was completed. There was also a daughter from Hefei, Anhui
province who bought her mother a bunch of bright red roses.

## For Lovers

Besides families, the epidemic has also isolated friends and lovers from
each others.In this period of time, they suffered from not being able to
see each other. But they got to show their concern through ordering.
Though being trapped in Wuhan, people there still made 3,995 orders to
the beloved in other cities in just the first three days of China's New
Year.

*Oral account from Kang Zhuoyu, a 33-year-old male rider.*

At around three o\'clock in the afternoon on the second day of the New
Year, I received an order from the supermarket. A lot of things to pick
up, and guess an extra round was needed.

Glanced at the note, I was touched by the pretty long words saying,
\"Hi, this is for my friend. She came to Wuhan for medical assistance. I
don\'t know in which room she is in the hotel, but please do deliver it
to her. Thank you.\"

I soon found that supermarket. It was the only store that was still open
on the street. Most of the items in the order were food including milk,
biscuits and instant porridge, to be packed in three boxes that each was
to contain 12 bottled water. I put one of them on the front pedal.

The streets of Wuhan have never been so empty. I've met not a single
pedestrian on the way. My destination, the former 161 Hospital of
People\'s Liberation Army, WuHan, and the now General Hospital of
Central Military Region was just more than three kilometers away. The
place where I was going to deliver was the hotel next door. And there,
too, has been quarantined for receiving patients.

As I arrived, I called the receiver, a girl with a soft voice. It was a
while before she came out of the building, and it never occured to me
that that was a petite girl in a military uniform.

Standing far from her, I told her that I wanted to help, as the boxes
were heavy. She thanked me, saying that I was not allowed to go in and
that she could move in batches. Looking at her from the back, I could
see why the boy faraway was so worried about her.

Such stories are common in my deliveries for "È le me?"\--literally
means "Hungry now?"in Chinese\--an online food delivery platform.

There was an order of braised chicken with rice from a girl in Guangzhou
for her boyfriend in Wuhan. "It would be appreciated if you could say
'Happy Birthday' to my boyfriend today! Thanks to the long distance and
the lockdown, he has been eating instant noodles for a long time. \" she
left the note.

Another guy in Guangzhou ordered Sichuan cuisine in a small home-cooked
restaurant and worte: \"I\'m worried about my girlfriend here.\"

I've also received an order that embarrassed me a little. It was from a
girl in Zhejiang ordering fruits for her boyfriend and wrote: \"Could
you please tell him that I miss him?"

For all the way delivering, I'd been considering whether to say such
words to a man and if so, how. Nothing would happen if I didn't, and I
did feel shy and embarrassed.

I couldn\'t get into the neighborhood until he came out to get it. A boy
approached from a distance, wearing a black-framed pair of glasses and
socks in a slipper. He was unshaven, and sloppily dressed.

He took the fruits and was ready to go. But it was just a few steps away
before he stopped, turning his back and mumbling \"Thank you. Thanks for
your hard work.\" \"Hold on, please. There is another thing. Your
girlfriend asked me to tell you that she misses you.\" I said to him. He
grinned and said \"Thank you\", again.

## For Medical Staff at the Frontline

In this particular period of time, tens of thousands of users supported
and prayed for the city through online ordering. More than 80% of the
orders with messages like \"Hang in there, Wuhan!\" and \"Pray for
Wuhan\" are from more than 00 cities such as Shanghai, Beijing and
Hangzhou. At the same time, the number of orders to cities where the
epidemic is serious that riders received have reached more than 60,000.

*Oral account from Liu Junwu, a 42-year-old male rider.*

I\'m from Henan Province, and my wife is from Hubei, in which my
children were brought up. After graduating from high school, I spent
more than 20 years struggling around and finally settled down in Wuhan,
making a living here as a rider. This has brought me more money than as
a factory worker from previous years.

To earn more with subsidies, I didn't plan to come back to my hometown
this Spring Festival, and the following COVID-19 outbreak just made my
work busier. Part of my assigned work was to deliver two meals a
day\--more than 300 sets totally\--to the nearby Zhongnan Hospital.
Eight workers including me take this task in turn and disinfect
ourselves each time we come back.

Since the outbreak, people in the country have contributed a lot to help
Wuhan. I read the news that there were people donating money and medical
supplies, but it never occurred to me that I myself can have a chance to
witness and even be part of that. Wuhan, despite the lockdown, is never
disconnected with us.

As being close to the hospital, I often receive some special cross-city
orders. They are neither for families nor friends, but for medical
workers in the frontline. But not someone specific. They are just to be
sent to the hospital.

These anonymous orders of love are really touching. As I am supposed to
go to the hospital for delivering meals, whenever I received such an
order, I always put it in my delivery box to send them to the hospital.
In that way good wishes are expressed and meals won't be wasted with no
one to receive them.

These orders from all over the country generally come with pretty long
messages of concern for frontline medical personnel in Wuhan.

"I am from Anxi, Fujian Province. Hang in there, Wuhan! A token of my
gratitude for frontline medical staff."

"I come from Chengdu and hope that medical staff would stay healthy.
Please put it directly on the front desk and you don't have to call me.
Thank you."

"I\'m from Tianjin. Please send dumplings to medical workers on New
Year\'s Eve. People in Wuhan like eating this. Hang in there, Wuhan!"

」

"I'm from Nanjing. Please flavour the food ordered as you people in
Wuhan like!"

"Gansu compatriots here. We stay with medical personnel in Wuhan, and
they are heroes. Please cut food into pieces for their convenience."

Behind these small orders, there is a genuine concern. What I need to do
to make it felt is fairly simple. But what matters most is sincerity.

## For Your Families and Mine

Many of the riders who are still delivering in the streets of Wuhan are
not local. Because of the lockdown of the city this Spring Festival,
they are unable to reunite with families. And Cross-city orders for
families from customers often reminds them of their own loved ones.
Fortunately, they are also being cared.

*Oral account from Sun Qingtian, a 28-year-old male rider.*

My son is two years old this year and I planned to go home for the New
Year. But I didn't thanks to the lockdown. Staying in the house I
rented, alone, I missed my families so much that I spent everyday
video-chatting with them.

While it\'s risky being out all day long, I can also get something that
others can't. Riding down the road, I see for many times people thumb at
me and say, " Come on!". It was pretty good. I mean it.

Some would give me masks and some others ask me to buy something. They
tell me that it is okay if there is no way to get it, and that stay
safe. This kind of concern between strangers, honestly speaking, is
something I've hardly experienced before.

My job makes it easier to feel the emotions that people do not
apparently show in daily lives.

An order of fruits was from a woman in Beijing. And the fact that she
comes from northern China can be revealed from the expressions she used,
in which she asked those fruits to be washed and cut because her husband
is not good at doing such things.

It just took me a few minutes to get the neighbourhood, and its
black-painted gating door was sheeny. The security guard stopped me and
said doo-to-door food delivery service was not allowed now. It took
three calls to get someone to pick the order up, whose voice was thick
and low. He seemed very busy, and just asked me to leave it in the
doorman\'s room before thanking me and hanging up. From the noisy
background I could tell that he might be in a hospital. No wonder he was
cared so much by someone.

There was an order of a bubble tea with a special requirement: to draw a
Peppa Pig. Sitting there and waiting for the shop assistant\--a young
girl\--to complete, I saw her meditating for a long time, and finally
draw a simplified version. It was small with some distorted details, but
it was cute anyway.

Being blocked out of the neighborhood, I called as usual. It was a woman
who picked up, with a kid's yelling of "Dad" heard. It reminded me of my
own son at home.

There was a father in Enshi, Hubei Province who bought his son many
snacks. He wrote, "Happy New Year and please take care of yourself, my
boy. Dad couldn't come back, but I love you, as I've always been."

There was a girl who impressed me. I waited for her to receive the
order, and saw her with a pair of glasses wearing a scarf walked toward
me, with hands folded in front of arms to defend the cold air.

She saw me in the rider\'s uniform from the distance, and nodded to
thank me. The message with this order wrote "My sister stays in Wuhan
alone and so I ordered this for her. Thanks for delivering!"

## For Life and Hope

People in and outside Wuhan show their concerns through placing orders.
Through what they ordered and the attached notes, we can feel the
support and love that people hold for Wuhan under the epidemic.

"Take care of yourself" and "Hang in there, Wuhan" are seen in orders to
Wuhan for more than 4,000 and 5,000 times respectively.

There are other orders at which people would cast a knowing smile. On
these days, people in Wuhan have received thousands of orders of cards,
chess and five pawn. And more than 100 orders come with words like "Stay
at home! Do remember this!"

Alibaba\'s data show that many in Wuhan do not forget to celebrate the
year of 2020 despite the epidemic. They have made more than a thousand
orders for those who also stay in the city and wrote \"Wish you a happy
New Year!\".

Another over 300 people ordered for friends and families outside Wuhan
and wrote,

"Happy new year and I'm good. "
