# 3.1 Publications per Day on Average: Chinese Scientists Battle the Outbreak

Originally published in *Southern Weekly(南方周末)* on Feb. 14th, 2020

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/image2.png" /></p>

<p align="right">(Data as of Feb. 5th is collected by Reporter Zhou Xiaoling and Intern Ye Zi from Southern Weekly)</p>

It takes about **10** minutes to read the full article.

From Jan 15th to Feb 5th, 66 articles on COVID-19 have been published by
scientists in China. This is an average of 3.1 articles per day with the
participation of 590 researchers.

As for the content, most research with 26 papers focuses on
epidemiological analysis and prediction; There are 20 papers on virus
analysis, 9 papers on clinical data analysis, and 6 papers on
pharmaceutical development. There are also 5 non-research articles of
comments from experts and news.

As for SARS-related articles published during the SARS outbreak, from
Nov 2002 to July 2003, 2,295 are found on the *Web of Science* database,
588 of which were contributed by Chinese scientists. The average is 2.17
papers per day. 680 are found on *PubMed*. 119 of them were published by
Chinese scientists, 0.44 papers per day on average.

**This article was originally published in *Southern Weekly*. Do not
reproduce without permission.**

Reporter \| Zhou, Xiaozheng (周小铃);  Ye, Zi (叶梓) (Intern) 

Editor \| Zhang, Yue (张玥)

On Feb 9th, 2020, an article \"Clinical characteristics of 2019 novel
coronavirus infection in China\" written by a team led by Dr. Nan-Shan
Zhong, head of a high-level expert team of China's National Health
Commission and academician of Chinese Academy of Engineering (CAE), was
published on the preprint website medRxiv.

The study reviewed the clinical characteristics of 1,099 diagnosed cases
of COVID-19 in China. It showed that only 1.18% of those patients had a
direct contact with wildlife, whereas 31.30% had visited Wuhan, and
71.80% had contacts with people from Wuhan. It also found that the
median of the incubation period is 3.0 days (ranging from 0 to 24 days).
The incubation period could be up to 24 days.

Six days before the article was published, the Standing Committee of the
Central Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China stressed that
more efforts should be put into scientific research to battle the
outbreak. Science and technology are crucial to win this battle. So they
encourage researchers from China to participate in scientific projects
of epidemic prevention and control, and to share data and information of
clinical cases.

According to the findings of *Southern Weekly* reporters, the first
study on COVID-19 in international journal databases was published on
Jan 15, 2020. It is a paper from Zhejiang University titled *\"Recent
advances in the detection of respiratory virus infection in humans\"*,
was published in the *Journal of Medical Virology*.

From Jan 15th to Feb 5th, 66 articles on COVID-19 have been published by
scientists in China. This is an average of 3.1 articles per day with the
participation of 590 researchers. Among these publications, 11 were
published in top international journals.

As for SARS-related articles published during the SARS outbreak, from
Nov 2002 to July 2003, 2,295 are found on the *Web of Science* database,
588 of which were contributed by Chinese scientists. The average is 2.17
papers per day. 680 are found on *PubMed*. 119 of them were published by
Chinese scientists, 0.44 papers per day on average.

## 66 Papers in 21 Days

Since Jan 15, 2020, publications by Chinese scientists at home and
abroad on the COVID-19 has been increasing. 11 articles were published
on Jan 29 and 9 on Feb 4, which were the highest numbers of publications
daily. On Jan 24, 5 articles were published, 4 of which were in top
international journals.

The sources of data collected by *Southern Weekly* reporters are mainly
the 'COVID-19 Dynamic Monitoring Platform for Scientific Research'
launched by the Wuhan Library of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, as
well as journal platforms including *China National Knowledge
Infrastructure (CNKI)*, *Elsevier* and *Wiley Online Library*.

The 66 papers can be divided into two categories based on their
publishing platforms. 32 of these papers were officially published in
professional journals. The other 34 papers were published on preprint
platforms such as *bioRxiv* and *medRxiv*.

*bioRxiv* preprint platform is a platform for storing and publishing
medical academic papers. Papers published on this platform are not
peer-reviewed, but undergo basic screening and checked against
plagiarism and obvious error, etc. All published papers can be retrieved
and cited using their unique digital object identifiers. This won't have
impacts on official publishing of papers in the future. *medRxiv* is
another preprint platform for medical research papers.

Among those officially published articles, 11 were published in top
international journals and 21 in other journals. Ranking these journals
based on the number of these 21 publications, they are *Journal of
Medical Virology*, *CNKI*, *Social Science Research Network (SSRN)*,
*Travel Medicine and Infectious Disease*, *Emerging Microorganisms and
Infections*, *Journal of Virology*, *Journal of Infection*, *SCIENCE
CHINA Life Sciences*, and *Radiology*.

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/image4.png" /></p>

<p align="right">(Data as of Feb. 5th is collected by Reporter Zhou Xiaoling and Intern Ye Zi from Southern Weekly)</p>

## Impact Factors of the Four Top Medical Journals

*The New England Journal of Medicine* (*NEJM*), *The Lancet*, *The
Journal of the American Medical Association* (*JAMA*) and *The British
Medical Journal* (*BMJ*) are reputed as the four top medical journals in
the world.

Among the 66 papers, 8 are published in these 4 top journals. 3 of them
are published in *Nature*, the world's leading multidisciplinary science
journal.

Two articles published in *NEJM* are both from the Chinese Center for
Disease Control and Prevention (China CDC).

Six papers are published in *the Lancet*. The first authors of 2 papers
among them are from Wuhan Jinyintan Hospital. Another 2 are from LKS
Faculty of Medicine of the University of Hong Kong. One is from China
CDC. The corresponding authors of the last paper, a comment on the
COVID-19 outbreak in Wuhan, are Wang Cheng, academician of CAE and Dean
of CAS, and Gao Fu, academician of CAE and director of China CDC, and
medical experts from the Oxford University and the University of
Virginia.

Three articles are published in *Nature.* First authors of two of them
are from Shi Zhengli\'s group of the Wuhan Institute of Virology, CAS.
The first author of the other article is from Zhang Yongzhen\'s group of
the Shanghai Public Health Clinical Center and the School of Public
Health of Fudan University. It is worth mentioning here that Prof. Zhang
Yongzhen is also a researcher at the National Institute for Communicable
Disease Control and Prevention of China CDC.

It means a lot to researchers that they have publications in top
journals.

According to the latest SCI impact factors published on June 20th 2019,
*The New England Journal of Medicine (NEJM)* has the highest impact
factor of 70.67, followed by *The Lancet* (59.1), *Nature* (43.07), *The
Journal of Infectious Diseases* (5.099) and *The Journal of Virology*
(4.324). The *Journal of Medical Virology*, which has published the most
of Chinese researchers articles, has an impact factor of 2.049.

In academia, the impact factor refers to the current average number of
citations of literature published in a journal in the past two years.
High impact factor indicates high citation rate, which means studies
published in a journal are of high quality and have an important
influence.

A university researcher in related fields told our reporters that the
author would be awarded several ten thousand RMB for a publication in
*The New England Journal of Medicine* because it has a high impact
factor of about 70.

A former employee at a top 3A-grade hospital said that papers are
published to demonstrate and publicize the results of studies. The
number and quality of publications in global journals indicate the
scientific achievements.

She explained that basically every medical institution has policies to
award authors whose articles are published in journals indexed by SCI.

There are different columns in a top journal. The above-mentioned
university researcher pointed out that *The Lancet*, for example, has
columns of research papers and case reports. The Lancet article from
China CDC is not a scientific research, but a case report, which means
it gathers and publicizes the treatment information of patients. This
also counts as a publication.

He observed that research papers were not the mainstream in *Science*.
On the contrary, case reports, review articles, and advertisements make
up 60% of its content. The review process of case reports is faster than
research papers because they just present first-hand information.

During the outbreak of COVID-19, the National Natural Science Foundation
of China set up a special fund on Jan 22 to support studies on COVID-19
and encourage researchers to publish their studies. The fund will
support 20 selected projects for a period of 2 years. Each of them will
receive a funding of 1.5 million RMB.

The next day, the Ministry of Science and Technology of China launched
emergency research projects on COVID-19. 15 experts from the expert team
of China's National Health Commission participated. 8 emergency projects
have already started and received their fundings. On the same day, a
special research group of 13 experts was formed in the lead of the Wuhan
Institute of Virology. Members also come from different Chinese
universities.

## Sharing Data by Publishing Papers

Based on data compiled by our reporters, 590 researchers participated in
the studies of the above-mentioned 66 papers. Categorized by their
background, they are from universities, research institutions, CDC and
hospitals.

45% of the researchers work in 43 Chinese and foreign universities. CDCs
are the second largest group, making up 20%, including 17 CDCs at
various levels of the nation, provinces, cities, and districts.
Hospitals account for 18%, among which Wuhan Jinyintan Hospital has the
largest number of participants. Researchers from research institutes
account for 17%.

Universities and research institutions with notable achievements are the
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Fudan University, the University of Hong
Kong and the Capital Medical University. They respectively published 11,
8, 9 and 3 articles.

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/image3.png" /></p>

<p align="right">(Data as of Feb. 5th is collected by Reporter Zhou Xiaoling and Intern Ye Zi from Southern Weekly)</p>

The CDCs stand out in both the number and quality of its publications.

In addition to the China CDC, 14 provincial, municipal and
district-level CDCs have also published papers on COVID-19. These
provincial CDCs include Hubei, Guangdong, Hunan, Guizhou, and Inner
Mongolia CDCs. Municipal CDCs include Wuhan, Jingzhou, Chengdu, Anyang,
Panjin, Nanchang, and Xianyang CDCs. District-level ones are Shanghai
Jiading CDC and Shanghai Baoshan CDC. The CDC of the Chinese People's
Liberation Army also participated.

The China CDC was established in 2002, redesigned from the former
Chinese Academy of Preventive Medicine. In an interview with *China
Health Journal*, Li Liming, the former director of China CDC, mentioned
that the reason to establish China CDC was to conduct scientific
research with the aim of controlling diseases and addressing public
health problems.

At present, CDCs at all levels participated in the publication of 11
papers in English. Among these papers, two were published in *NEJM*, two
in *Nature*, one in *The Lancet*, one in *the SSRN*, three in the
*bioRxiv* preprint platform and two in the *medRxiv* preprint platform.
The 6 officially published papers in English by CDCs were all based on
their first-hand data of patients.

The large number of CDC\'s publications owes to its mastery of data.

A doctoral student in the field of public health told us that there are
faculty members from her school recruited teams to crawl data from the
Internet to write papers. They have ideas but do not have much data.
They have to work hard to get data from the Internet. It really depends
on who owns the database.

The China CDC must report the outbreak to the WHO (World Health
Organization) as soon as possible. The above-mentioned university
researcher said that as for research institutions, the way to share data
is by publishing papers.

## Questions including the Source of the Virus Remain to be Answered

Based on the content of these papers, studies have made breakthroughs in
various aspects including epidemiological prediction, pharmaceutical
development, virus detection and genetic analysis, and clinical data
analysis.

Specifically, there are 26 publications on epidemiological prediction,
which is the most popular topic, 20 in viral analysis, 9 in clinical
data analysis, and 6 in pharmaceutical research and development. There
are 5 non-research articles of expert comments and news.

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/image1.png" /></p>

<p align="right">(Data as of Feb. 5th is collected by Reporter Zhou Xiaoling and Intern Ye Zi from Southern Weekly)</p>

In terms of viral genetic analysis, on Jan 10 2020, Prof. Zhang
Yongzhen, from China CDC, Shanghai Public Health Clinical Center and the
School of Public Health of Fudan University released the genome sequence
of SARS-CoV-2 on *GenBank*, for researchers to download, use, and
analyze. Meanwhile, they declared that publishing study results based on
the genome sequence needs to contact him for permission.

On Jan 22, 2020, Professor Gao Shan\'s group from the School of Life
Sciences of Nankai University published their results in the *Journal of
Bioinformatics*, using Professor Zhang\'s published genome data.
Professor Zhang Yongzhen was unhappy and asked him to withdraw his work
immediately.

Gao Shan responded to this incident that data from this major public
health emergency should be shared, that no one owns the data, and that
the China CDC should make it available to the public in the first place.
By the time of posting this article, Professor Zhang Yongzhen had not
replied to our interview email.

The earliest eye-catching genetic analysis of the virus by Shi Zhengli
team from Wuhan Institute of Virology was published on January 23 on the
*bioRxiv*, co-authored by Wuhan Institute of Virology, Wuhan Jinyintan
Hospital, and Hubei Province CDC. The origins of the virus genomes in 5
patients were investigated. The results showed that the sequence
consistency between coronavirus in patients and the one in bats is as
high as 96%.

Recently a researcher from India published a paper on *bioRxiv*, arguing
that there are 4 unique insertion sequences in the spike proteins of
SARS-CoV-2, some of which are very similar to sequences of HIV. This
paper incited a public suspicion targeted at the Wuhan Institute of
Virology.

On February 2, Shi Zhengli replied to our reporters in a text message
saying that those who believe the malicious rumor from American media
and the suspicion of the Indian scientist do not deserve my
explanations. Shi Zhengli also posted a similar comment on her WeChat
account and forwarded the news that the Indian scientist withdrew his
manuscript on that day.

The next day, the results of Shi Zhengli\'s group which was previously
published on *bioRxiv*, was officially published in *Nature*. The
results suggested that SARS-CoV-2 uses the same cellular receptors,
ACE2, as SARS-CoV does.

According to the latest research results, the current discussions on
virus gene analysis has not reached a concrete conclusion. Especially,
intermediate hosts in virus transmissions are still unclear.

Moreover, questions such as the source of the virus still remain
unanswered.

Kristian Andersen, an evolutionary biologist from the Scripps Research
Institute, published in *The Lancet* and speculated that there is a
possibility that infected people could once brought the virus to the
Huanan Seafood Market, which means the virus could actually originate
elsewhere and then spread to the Huanan Seafood Market, where it then
broke out in a large scale. Among the first 41 patients in Wuhan, 14 of
them had no history of exposure to the Huanan Seafood Market.

Similarly, a paper published on January 29 by 14 multi-level CDCs in
China showed that 55% of the cases before Jan 1st, 2020 were related to
the Huanan Seafood Market.

In the field of pharmaceutical research, a recent study by Wuhan
Institute of Virology on February 4 found that remdesivir and
chloroquine are effective in repressing 2019-nCoV infection in vitro.

It is shown by public information that Wuhan Institute of Virology
applied for a Chinese patent for invention (a use patent) for
remdesivir, with respect to its function of repressing SARS-CoV-2. It
would also gain access to major countries all over the globe, through
the PCT (Patent Cooperation Agreement). But it is still uncertain
whether the application will be approved.

On the afternoon of February 5, Xinhua News reported that remdesivir had
completed the registration and approval for clinical trials, with the
support of China National Health Commission and National Medical
Products Administration. The first batch of severe patients of COVID-19
will start the trial of this medicine on February 6.

The research on virology is tough. \"In biology, nothing is clear,
everything is too complicated, everything is a mess, and just when you
think you understand something, you peel off a layer and find deeper
complications beneath. Nature is anything but simple.\" as written in
*The Hot Zone: A Terrifying True Story*, a nonfiction thriller about the
ebolaviruses.

(Southern Weekend Reporter Gao Yichen also contributed to this article)
