# Guarding at the Intensive Care Unit of Jinyintan Hospital in Wuhan

Originally published in *Sanlian Lifeweek(三联生活周刊)* on Jan. 30th, 2020

Interviewee \| Chen, Dechang (陈德昌)

Reporter \| Huang, Ziyi (黄子懿)

Dechang Chen, 57 years old, is the director of the Department of
Critical Care Medicine at the Shanghai Ruijin hospital and the incoming
committee chairman of the Chinese Society of Critical Care Medicine. He
volunteered with the Shanghai medical team to urgently rush to Wuhan on
New Year\'s Eve to take care of the new coronavirus patients on the
frontline. The first group of 136 medical personnel sent by the Shanghai
Medical Teams includes 70+ general rescue team and 60+ severe-case
rescue team.

Dechang Chen said that the situation of severely ill patients in
Jinyintan Hospital is more serious. Sixteen of the twenty-nine patients
in the ward under his supervision are on respirators, and now they are
facing a shortage of medical supplies. When he and his colleagues from
the Shanghai medical team arrived at the hospital, the local medical
staff had been working continuously for nearly a month. This expedition
is a lot more strenuous than expected.

## Support the Northern 3rd District on Treatment of Severely Ill Patients

We went through a day of protection training against infection of the
virus ourselves before formally entering the Jinyintan Hospital in Wuhan
on January 26th, 2020. The situation in Jinyintan Hospital is very
severe.

This is a hospital in Wuhan that specializes in treating confirmed cases
of Coronavirus COVID-19. Out of over 400 patients, there are
approximately 130-140 severe cases. The hospital is divided into the
South District and the North District. The Shanghai Medical Team is
responsible for more than 70 patients on the second and third floors of
the North District. Patients on the second floor are in better
condition. Patients on the third floor are all severe cases. The general
medical wards in the North 3 District were remodeled for emergency
treatment with relatively crude facilities.

I\'m in charge of the Northern 3rd district. There are 29 patients with
a critical illness. 16 of them are on ventilators. Many of them only
have 90-91% oxygen saturation while the normal value for a healthy
person is 98%. Amongst the severe cases, the majority is the elderly
population with a few cases of young people in their 30s. Severe
patients' symptoms are characterized by dyspnea, pulmonary fibrosis, and
sometimes difficulty to inject oxygen.

The original medical staff at the hospital was exhausted when we went
in. They are all working under extreme pressure, with a high level of
intensity because of insufficient staff and scarce medical resources.
There were only 7 to 8 ward doctors and 40 nurses in this district and
everyone works nonstop day and night. For weeks, some of them can\'t go
home at night and stay at the hospital for almost 24 hours.

On the other hand, Jinyintan Hospital is constantly receiving new
patients. Two days ago, two more wards opened. On my first day in the
hospital, I saw an ambulance sending new patients to the hospital when I
got off work. They\'re in desperate need of backup. The Chinese
government supports Hubei using the partner assistance model. In
addition to us (doctors from other provinces), the Third Military
Medical University also sent support and is responsible for the 4-6
floors in the Northern District.

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/guarding_at_jinyintan/image4.png" /></p>

The first dispatch of 136 members from the Shanghai medical team all
came from the large hospitals in Shanghai, including 70+ general rescue
team and 60+ severe case rescue team. More than 30 doctors and 90 nurses
are specialized in critical medical care, infectious diseases, and
respiratory diseases. Others have a background in physiology
disciplines, such as digestive and blood diseases.

On January 23, Chinese New Year\'s Eve, the head of Shanghai Ruijin
Hospital informed us that the situation in Wuhan was urgent. Shanghai
needs to organize a medical team to back it up. At that time, Wuhan
needed experts in the field of severe illness, as a critical medicine
practitioner, and I signed up immediately.

My wife and I both graduated from the Second Military Medical
University. Though we have retired from the military, we feel a strong
sense of responsibility as soldiers. I was also involved in the battle
against SARS in 2003, but I didn\'t go to the frontline. This time, I
want to stand up for my country when she needs me because it is our duty
to step up and go where we are needed most when our country is in
turmoil.

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/guarding_at_jinyintan/image2.png" /></p>

On the morning of the day before the Chinese New Year, I got a call from
my hospital and they told me that the National Health Commission has
approved my registration and needed me to participate in a two-hour
training immediately for the novel coronavirus(COVID-19) protection and
defense techniques. After the training, I asked when I should leave at
that time, they told me that I probably will be sent to a newly
constructed hospital in Wuhan like the one they created for SARS in
Beijing in a few days. Then I went back home for the New Year\'s Eve
dinner.

At 6 pm that day, just when our New Year\'s Eve dinner was being served,
I got a call and was told, \"You need to go tonight! Come to the
hospital and get your medical supplies, then get to the airport.\" I
quickly finished my dinner and left home.

My family is very supportive of me, but still, have some concerns about
my safety. Before my leaving, my wife repeatedly asked me to \"make sure
you are well protected.\" She helped me prepare some new clothes for the
new year (a Chinese tradition to wear new clothes for the new year). I
put them on that night as an amulet. I also packed a lot of personal
daily items because I knew that I might not be able to come back for a
while.

## Protection Training: Refer to the Ebola Virus

The Shanghai medical team arrived early on the morning of the first day
of the Chinese New Year. We didn\'t take over immediately after
arriving. To achieve the goal of zero infection among medical staff, a
healthcare specialist gave us a whole-day training session for
self-protection. One of the highlights in the training is how to wear
protective equipment, such as the correct order of dressing and
undressing medical protection equipment. The process is very strict.

From the perspective of protection against further infection, the
intensive care unit in the Jinyintan hospital is divided into three
sections, a cleaning area, a buffer zone, and a contaminated area.
Wearing clean protective gear can guarantee safety, but undressing the
protective gear can be critical. After getting out of ICU, it\'s vital
to adhere to the correct order to undress the contaminated gear which
has been exposed to the virus. It\'s very dangerous if you panic and
forget how to do it in a suddenly changed working environment.

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/guarding_at_jinyintan/image5.png" /></p>

On the first day after we arrived, we were practicing over and over
again on dressing and undressing. It\'s much more complicated than
wearing an oxygen mask on an airplane. It takes 10-20 minutes to
sterilize ourselves in each step. For larger people like me, clothes
don\'t fit very well, which makes it harder to dress and undress.
Moreover, there\'s a risk of exposure if your clothes don't fit, which
is why we should always pay constant attention.

For medical workers in the ICU, they should be equipped in second-level
protection as requested, and when they need to do some dangerous
procedures, such as setting up for intubation, third-level protection is
required.

The good news is that medical workers in the Jinyintan hospital are
doing a good job of self-protection. At present, almost all of our
medical personnel are uninfected and they are taking special attention
and efforts. Of course, it is not saying that severely ill patients are
higher contagious than other patients. It\'s just that severe patients
may cough more and spit out more droplets than mild patients, giving a
higher risk of infection.

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/guarding_at_jinyintan/image1.png" /></p>

Besides, it is very strange that the examiners in the Jinyintan\'s
Examination Department never have direct contact with patients. But four
of them got infected nonetheless. How did they get infected? Experts
speculated that one possibility is when performing high-risk operations
such as blood tests. The patients\' blood sample was exposed to the air
to form an aerosol and the virus carried in the aerosol was transmitted
to the four examiners. If so, then the virus could be very dangerously
powerful. People can be infected by being exposed to blood
cell-containing aerosols. In that case, all of the three major ways of
getting virus infection, including contact transmission, droplet
transmission, and droplet transmission, could be related to aerosols.

So far, internally we followed the multi-layer protection procedure
applied by the Third Military Medical University for the Ebola virus. I
used to work at the ICU, we used general protection for preventing a
lower level of contagious drug-resistant bacteria, such as protective
clothing, surgical mask, and hat. But this time, we are not only wearing
protective clothes, but also isolated covers from head to foot, safety
goggles, face guard, face mask, two layers of gloves and two layers of
hats. To prevent infection, some of the female members with long hair
also had a haircut. We can only save more severely ill patients if we
can protect ourselves.

## "We come to eat bitterness and endure hardship."

Since we took over everything here, we took some time to make sure of a
smooth transition. And Jinyintan Hospital left a contact person for
coordination.

The shortage of supplies is more severe than we expected. We thought the
hospital had enough supplies to last for a week, then we found out we
had only 500 suits of protective clothes left here, which can last for
two days. Supplies we brought here may last for a week, but they are all
for emergencies. We have already reported the demand for supplies. We
believe that our request will be addressed.

Because the hospital room of the Northern 3rd district is remodeled from
the general ward, the capacity for operating as an ICU is still limited.
Generally speaking, the hospital room could not be used as an ICU
because the oxygen source for ICU must meet some requirements. The power
system should have two sets to backup several devices, such as an oxygen
tank, at most 16 for each patient due to the high usage rate. A power
outage could happen if the equipment is overworked.

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/guarding_at_jinyintan/image3.png" /></p>

Each doctor has scheduled a day shift of 6 hours and a night shift of 12
hours for every 5-6 days. Working straight for six hours a day is
intensive, especially if working in a special environment and wearing
stuffy protective clothing. The working environment is incredibly tough,
not only because there are many severely ill patients, but also we have
scarce resources. Because of the inconvenience and safety issue for
dressing and undressing protective gear, we normally have to endure six
hours without eating and drinking, or going to the bathroom. We need to
go into the ICU at any time when patients\' condition changes, which
will cost new protective gear. Every single day consumes a lot of
supplies.

When I first arrived here, we had a shortage of staff. The average
patient to doctor ratio in ICU is normally 1: 0.8; ideally 1:1.2 for
infectious disease, and one patient should be assigned to 3 or even 3.5
nurses. That means 29 patients require at least 87 nurses. Our district
only had 48 nurses working eight hours a day, everyone was exhausted. It
is inadvisable to work too long in ICU. The ideal working hours is four
hours per day. When working longer than that, there will be a safety
risk if their masks are moist, which lowers the protection. We can\'t
turn on the heating and air conditioning in the ICU in cold weather and
have to keep working with our frozen hands. We are also afraid to use
too much header in case of a power outage.

After coordination, we have been assigned another 15 nurses, and the
original eight-hour shift was decreased to six hours. The second medical
team from Shanghai with another 50 nurses has also arrived, greatly
reducing our pressure. However, because of the shortage of supplies, we
don\'t want too much manpower, otherwise, we will consume too many
supplies. This is our current dilemma.

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/guarding_at_jinyintan/image6.png" /></p>

It is a hard job, but we are all prepared for the hardships that come
along. At the moment, everything is in order, including making rules and
regulations and establishing a temporary Party branch. As a Party
veteran, I keep calm and ready myself for a tough battle.

At present, generally speaking, some of our patients are getting better.
There is a 30+ years old young man in my ward who has been in treatment
for two weeks for dyspnea. He is on respirators. The first night I took
over, his blood oxygen saturation was about 90%. This was a tough
situation. After our team took care of him for a night, his blood oxygen
saturation had risen to 93% the next day and he felt better; Another
patient, 40-50 years old, has delirium and sometimes has delusions and
is emotionally unstable. We have been comforting him and using
medication. Currently, his condition is slowly stabilizing.

We also have a new patient who came in in a critical condition. The
lowest level of blood oxygen saturation he got was only 40%. We did our
best to save him, the patient\'s blood oxygen saturation has now risen
to 98% and regained consciousness. New patients are constantly sent in,
and we have never even had a chance to think about when we\'ll be able
to go back. We must keep our morale up and can not afford to lose faith.
