# Epidemic Prevention in Wuhan: How to Make Good Use of Available Resources?

Originally published in *Sanlian Lifeweek(三联生活周刊)* on Jan. 28th, 2020

By Jan 28th, according to the National Health Commission, nearly 6,000
medical staff have been dispatched to Hubei province to support the
prevention and treatment of the outbreak there. Nationwide medical
personnel and resource support is gradually changing the situation of
Wuhan\'s response. Wuhan is also continuously summarizing and adjusting
its strategies to the outbreak. As the number of imported cases
increases everywhere, the practical experiences and lessons learned in
Wuhan's epidemic prevention may serve as a reference for other regions.

In the opinion of Miao Xiaohui, a clinical consultant on public health
from Shanghai, it is of course important for Wuhan to build new
hospitals and to enlarge the area for medical treatment. But it is even
more important to ensure a good allocation of available resources and a
prompt response.

Journalists \| Wang, Haiyan (王海燕); Wan, Shan (王珊)

Translation \| Chengji Translation Team

## The Challenge for Hospitals at Every Level

On Jan 24th, at noon, the COVID-19 Prevention and Control Headquarter in
Wuhan announced the implementation of the graded treatment policy for
the novel pneumonia. Patients with a fever will be first sent to the
community health care center for screening and categorization, and then
sent to higher-level hospitals. **But for some patients, the problem
becomes even more difficult.**

Xu Cai lives in the Jun\'an Community in the street of Tazi Lake, which
is located in Jian\'an District, Wuhan City. Her parents-in-law and her
husband started to have an elevated temperature on Jan 10th and Jan
15th, respectively. Since then they have been staying in a hospital,
taking infusions and waiting for CT examinations, which showed that all
of them had lung infections. Possibilities of Influenza A, Influenza B,
and ordinary pneumonia had been ruled out. But they were not diagnosed
as patients of COVID-19. Since the lockdown of Wuhan on Jan 23rd, public
transportation in the city also stopped running. Xu Cai\'s family does
not own a car, so the patients began to walk to the hospital and then
back home. **Xu Cai\'s parents-in-law needed 2 hours to finish the
distance of 2 kilometers because they already had some slight breathing
difficulties.**

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/epidemic_prevention_in_wuhan/image5.png" /></p>

On the afternoon of Jan. 25th, Xu Cai\'s husband started to have a
fever. Following the graded treatment policy, Xu Cai called her
community center but the line was busy all day. Also, there was no one
answering the phone at the community hospital. **It was not until 10 pm
that the community center contacted Xu Cai. They advised her to overcome
it by herself. But at that time Xu Cai\'s husband had long been having a
high fever, and the antipyretics did not help either.**

Xu could only leapfrog her community and call the ambulance directly.
**At 3 a.m., on Chinese New Year\'s Day, Xu Cai finally found an
ambulance to pick her husband up after calling the emergency number for
more than 2 hours together with her friends.** Her husband was first
sent to Wuhan Tianyou Hospital, which was a newly designated hospital
for the outbreak. But after the ambulance arrived there, they were
informed that the hospital was still preparing the beds and could not
take any patients. The ambulance could only take him to the No. 11
Hospital, which was just the designated hospital where Xu\'s husband had
the infusions. Later the CT results of his lung showed that his
infection was getting worse.

**But the No. 11 Hospital could not arrange hospitalizations for him.
First, there was no vacant bed. Second, according to the new graded
treatment policy, hospitalization could only be uniformly arranged after
receiving the report from the community and concrete diagnosis of the
patient.** Xu Cai and her friends networked in many ways, but they got
similar feedback from several hospitals. Xu Cai could only urge the
community center again and again. But the only feedback the community
could give was that they already reported, but had no idea when a
response would come.

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/epidemic_prevention_in_wuhan/image6.png" /></p>

<p align="right">Photo by Yuan Zheng.</p>

On the morning of Jan 26th \-- namely, two days after the graded
treatment policy was announced, our reporters randomly dialed 10
community centers in multiple districts. **Half of them were
unavailable. Two of them could arrange transportations and report the
case to hospitals. Another two said they were in charge of reporting the
graded treatment information, but could not provide vehicles.** Our
reporters also called 10 community hospitals and neighborhood
committees. Three of them answered the phone. 2 of them said they got
vehicles and can finish the procedures of graded treatment. The other
one said they themselves were quite confused about the situation.

There was already a set of graded treatment procedures before this
community graded treatment. In the old version, patients with a fever
admitted to general hospitals should be transferred to designated
hospitals, where diagnosed patients with severe conditions would be
taken to Jinyintan Hospital. **It was also rather difficult to get
through each of these steps here.** A doctor from a top-level hospital
told us that \"After the announcement of designating hospitals for the
outbreak, the designated hospital in my district set up a criterion,
namely for patients to be transferred they must be diagnosed first.
**The chance of having a diagnosis with the test kit is quite limited.
According to that criterion, many of our patients had no choice but to
stay here for a while. But we contributed some doctors to help other
hospitals, while we also took in some patients from other departments of
the designated hospital. Now we can only strive to ensure the normal
operation of the hospital. \"**

**Designated hospitals also had their difficulties.** Li Tong, a nurse
at a designated hospital, told us that the respiratory department of her
hospital began to fill up in late December. In early January this year,
the hospital set aside several floors of wards for the treatment of
fever patients. On the evening of January 21, the hospital was informed
that it became a designated hospital for the COVID-19. More patients
immediately swarmed in, forming a long line outside the gate, which was
hundreds of meters long and was difficult for the hospital to digest.

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/epidemic_prevention_in_wuhan/image3.png" /></p>

**Jinyintan Hospital, which is currently the end hospital of the
procedure, requires concrete diagnosis and transfer procedures for
patients to be admitted. Due to this strict requirement, the number of
patients is relatively under control. The problem there was a severe
shortage of medical personnel.** Lin Bai works as a nurse at Jinyintan
Hospital. She and her colleagues were from various hospitals in Wuhan
City and volunteered to join the nursing work. There are nearly 40
patients on every floor. In the daytime, there are only 8 nurses and
only 3 at night. They are responsible for everything, from infusion to
the dining, drinking, defecation, and hygiene of the patients. The
nurses in the critical ward, **in addition to the full-body protective
clothing, also carries around a ventilation system weighing up to 5
kilograms. They can only stay there for about three hours at a time, or
there will be a risk of shock.**

**There\'s no place for medical staff to have a rest in Jinyintan
Hospital. Medical staff who have close contact with severely ill
patients every day, could only go back home after work. A complete
quarantine could not be ensured.** In order to increase their immunity,
Lin Bai and her colleagues take traditional Chinese medicine and
thymosin daily. Thymosin is a medicine that mediates the immune system
with unclear mechanisms. Because Jinyintan Hospital has a priority for
supplies, the protective equipment for Lin Bai and her colleagues is
sufficient so far.

## Became a Designated Hospital in a Sudden

**Hospitals at all levels were faced with a huge shortage of supplies
due to a sharp increase in the number of patients as well as a lack of
preparation.** Li Tong remembers that their hospital was suddenly named
as a designated hospital on January 22nd. Li Tong was not in the
Respiratory Department but they had already admitted several patients
who were highly suspected cases of COVID-19. At that time, all the
medical staff in Li Tong\'s department had no protection except ordinary
facial masks. They were all in an unprotected situation. By Jan 17th,
there had been several suspected cases among the medical staff. They
strongly applied for protective equipment but got no feedback. **It took
a few days or so before the nurses\' cloth caps were finally replaced
with disposable caps, around Jan 20th.**

The news that their hospital became a designated hospital, hit Li Tong
and the patients almost at the same time. This means that as endless
feverish patients swarmed to the gate, the hospital was still installing
isolation doors and remodeling wardrobes in a hurry. They only had a
buffer of two days. **Within the two days, Li Tong needed to discharge
patients from the hospital or transfer them to another hospital. She
only managed to find time for the only training available and learned to
put on and take off the protective suit. Finally, the protective
equipment arrived on the evening of Jan 23rd.**

The hurried response has brought the medical staff risks. Li Tong\'s
hospital provided a blood test for all the medical staff on Jan 23rd. It
turned out that several people needed to be quarantined at home, merely
in Li Tong\'s department. In the whole hospital, dozens of medical staff
needed to stay in the hospital for treatments, which made the lack of
personnel even worse. **When we interviewed them, one of Li Tong\'s
colleagues had been working continuously for 18 hours.**

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/epidemic_prevention_in_wuhan/image1.png" /></p>

Wu Hong is the manager of a \'third level A\' hospital in Wuhan. He said
that after the lockdown of the city, the government did not make any
arrangements for medical staff. Wu Hong lives far away from his hospital
and usually takes a bus to go to work. On the first day of the lockdown,
he spent more than one hour merely getting into a taxi. Among his
colleagues, some people who do not live that far away could only ride a
bicycle to work. **The hospital did not even have transportations for
protective equipment and basic living materials. It was after many
hospitals appealed that a specific transportation route was opened.**

Similar to most hospitals, Wu Hong\'s hospital was in an acute lack of
masks. He made an example that if a hospital has 500 staff, who need 1
mask per day per person, then 5000 masks would be run out within only 10
days.\" But how can we only use 1 mask per day per person? How could we
make the doctors use the same mask for multiple surgeries in one day?\"
**In order to minimize the consumption of masks, the hospital could only
try their best to arrange shifts for the medical staff and to reduce the
working durations of ordinary departments. However, this will add to the
scarcity of medical resources in return.**

The lack of protective equipment was largely due to the soar of
consumption and the closure of factories during the Chinese New Year.
Hospitals rarely put a great amount of protective equipment in stock
during normal times. However, as far as Wu Hong knew, the city
government had its own stock. The reason why they did not distribute
their equipment was that they wanted to ensure the need for the newly
built \"Xiaotangshan Hospital\" in the Wuhan version. **At present, all
the major hospitals are trying to use their own connections to raise
donations of protective equipment from society. Wu Hong said that \"As
for raising donations, the government should have shared their stock
first. If it is still not enough, we then raise from society. Now it is
all the other way around.\"**

On the evening of Jan 24th, the third press conference for the outbreak
in Hubei was held, on which Hubei Medical Products Administration
announced that they will \"visit factories and business which produces
or sells masks, thermometers, and antiviral drugs, in order to ensure
the quality and the supplies of drugs and medical devices which are
needed for containing the outbreak.\"

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/epidemic_prevention_in_wuhan/image7.png" /></p>

Xiantao City, which is only 100 kilometers from Wuhan, is a nationwide
known production base for disposable cloth masks. Wang Ming, the manager
of a mask factory in Xiantao City, told us that there is no need to
stock masks. **He mentioned that ordinary masks and medical masks share
the same procedures of production. They can be produced quite quickly as
long as the filter material is available.** Wang Ming\'s factory mainly
exported masks abroad, and their highest production could reach up to 30
million per month. At present, they have a stock of raw materials to
produce several hundred thousand medical masks, or 7 million ordinary
masks (which can block saliva).

The factory stopped running for the holiday one week before the Chinese
New Year. Prior to the holiday, he and other surrounding mask factories
received orders from Hong Kong and Macau. One of the customers even made
an individual order of 2 million masks. Wang Ming\'s factory received
its latest expedited order in early January. After the outbreak, Wang
Ming and his peer factories have been constantly watching to see if it
is possible to continue the production. They asked the National Health
Commission and confirmed that if medical companies are buying their
products, they can get a license for production. **But Wang Ming was
more concerned about the problem of raw materials. Their stock could
only support the production for a few days. The raw materials are not
classified as medical protective equipment and cannot be issued a
license. It is still unknown how to import raw materials from other
places.**

Miao Xiaohui is a clinical consultant on public health from Shanghai who
fully participated in SARS prevention in Shanghai and Beijing
Xiaotangshan Hospital in 2003. He was very confused when he noticed that
Wuhan was planning to build two temporary hospitals. He told us that
after 2003, big cities all over the country have built specific
hospitals in response to potential public health emergencies. Taking the
existing lung hospital into account, there are at least two hospitals
that can take patients of COVID-19. Especially, the newly built epidemic
hospital with governmental funding after 2003 is absolutely able to and
must play the role of Xiaotangshan Hospital during the SARS outbreak.

**In his points of view, it is important for Wuhan to build new
hospitals and to enlarge the area for medical treatment of course. But
it is even more important to ensure a good allocation of available
resources and a prompt response.** As a matter of fact, some medical
staff from Jinyintan Hospital told us that they had some vacant wards
until Jan 25th, mainly because of a lack of medical personnel.

## Avoid Panic Visits to Hospitals

Looking back on the timeline, Zhong Nanshan had an interview with CCTV
on Jan 20th; Hubei Province started a Level 2 Response to Public Health
Emergency, which was upgraded to Level 1 two days later and was followed
by many other provinces. Within a week, the entire Chinese population
had undergone a dramatic emotional change. Wuhan people, who live \"in
the center of a hurricane\", may have an even stronger feeling.

Gao Lanlan lives in Qingshan District, Wuhan City. **She suspected that
her father had a fever only because of the panic.** She was one of the
small percentages of people who knew about the outbreak from friends in
the medical system and became highly alarmed since late December. She
bought masks a long time ago and warned her friends of the disease.
However, her father was always very calm. Till Jan 23rd when Wuhan went
into the lockdown, he still reminded Gao Lanlan \'not to create or
spread rumors\' when Gao discussed the outbreak with her friends.

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/epidemic_prevention_in_wuhan/image2.png" /></p>

The abrupt change of his mood occurred on the morning of Jan 24th, when
the husband of Gao Lanlan\'s friends was quarantined and Gao was
notified. One day ago, an old man from Gao\'s neighbor's family died.
Although it was proved to be a flu, **people were all suspicious that it
could be the COVID-19. What\'s more, after watching videos in the WeChat
groups that the medical staff was experiencing an emotional breakdown,
the blood pressure of Gao\'s father soared. After taking some pills, it
went back to normal, but he was always feeling sick and had some
palpitations.**

He began to have a fever on Jan 25th, with his body temperature ranging
from 37.3C and 37.4C. Gao Lanlan\'s first response was to call the
community and wanted to go through the graded treatment procedures.
However, she was told that community workers were not doctors and they
didn\'t have any protections for themselves, so they could not help.
They advised her to take her father to the designated hospital in
Qingshan District, namely the No. 9 Hospital, or she can directly call
an ambulance. They also emphasized that \"He can surely be admitted into
the hospital if you call an ambulance.\"

Gao Lanlan was really hesitant. She would like to quarantine her father
at home, but all the pharmacies nearby had been closed. If she decided
to go to the hospital, she knew that the designated No. 9 Hospitals had
been quite crowded with patients. At last, a friend of hers, who was a
civil servant, told her that s/he went to clear beds for a large Level 3
hospital located near Gao\'s home, so the friend advised her to go there
to have a try. After taking her father there, Gao Lanlan realized only
then that the fever clinic was always open there. Except for ambulances
running in and out, the whole hospital looked quite empty. There were
only 3 patients in front of her father.

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/epidemic_prevention_in_wuhan/image4.png" /></p>

<p align="right">Photo by Yuan Zheng.</p>

Gao\'s father was examined for Influenza A and Influenza B at the
hospital. He also had a CT imaging taken of his lungs. Finally, the
doctor diagnosed that he did not have any problems except for a little
bronchitis. He didn\'t need to take any medications for the moment. On
the morning of Jan 26th, his body temperature became normal. However, no
matter how Gao Lanlan comforted him, he was always in a panic, thinking
that he was in the incubation period of COVID. **There might be a lot of
people who went to see doctors because of panic just like Gao Lanlan\'s
father.** When they were at the hospital, a woman in front of them had
already come to the hospital 3 times that week. The doctor repeatedly
asked her not to come again. The doctor also said if she were to take
more CT examinations, she would get sick although she was healthy then.

**This is also why it is crucial to build a solid base at the community
level in response to such a complicated outbreak, besides saving
patients in hospitals, according to Miao Xiaohui.** But \'building a
base at the community level\' does not mean letting the community decide
on the screening and the distribution of patients. It is difficult to
operate, and will not gain trust from the people. Instead, community
workers should be well equipped with protective facilities, and visit
the neighborhood one by one, helping the government on epidemic survey,
psychological support and knowledge propagation. **\"They need to work
on some detailed and professional tasks, which challenges the
intelligence of the local government\"**, said Miao Xiaohui.

As far as we learned, a part of neighborhood committees and community
hospitals still had not sent out any notices by Jan 26th, let alone
receiving medical training and preparing protective equipment. This
means that **community centers and community hospitals, as the most
basic and the most important step in the graded treatment policy for
COVID, can only actually do a limited amount of work, apart from waiting
for the patients and reporting them to higher-order hospitals.**

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/epidemic_prevention_in_wuhan/image8.png" /></p>

As to now, public transportation in Wuhan has been basically suspended.
Wu Hong estimates that with these measures, the increase of infected
patients will drop very soon. But since the incubation period of the
virus can be as long as 2 weeks, we could only consider whether to
remove some measures after a watching period of 2 weeks.

As a young person sensitive to online information, Gao Lanlan was quite
worried in early January. But most people around could not understand
her at that time. Jan 23rd, the day that Wuhan was locked down, at 3 am,
her good friend called her to ask if she were to buy flights and flee
away from Wuhan together. Looking at her kid beside her, thinking of her
father next door, and remembering her happy life in Wuhan for over 30
years, she finally gave up the flight, on which there were still some
seats available.

Different from the silence before the storm one week ago, she is now
exposed to a huge amount of information every day, which includes
negative news about the outbreak and the shortage of supplies, but also
positive stories that people stay strong together and help each other.
**Every piece of the news reveals some truth to her. She became calm
instead and also persuaded her father to trust in the power of the
collective.**

(Great thanks to Pianpian\'s support at Wuhan, Wu Hong, Li Tong, Gao
Lanlan and Lin Bai are aliases. Interns Yang Yue and Zhang Jiaqian also
contributed to this report.)

* * *

Further progress: On the evening of Jan 26th, with the access provided
by the community, a bed in hospital was finally allocated for Xu Cai\'s
husband. The bed slot happened to come from the Level 3 hospital near
Gao Lanlan\'s home. On Jan 28th, Xu Cai\'s parents-in-law were also
admitted to the hospital after a long waiting period.

**During the most difficult time, some friends sent her husband to the
hospital and then took him back, some netizens she did not know dropped
protective facilities and groceries at her door. A lot of neighbors also
helped her together to find access to the hospital.** When her
parents-in-law were not accepted by the hospital, someone suggested that
she takes them to the community center and just stays there. But she
dismissed this suggestion. No matter how hard it was, she didn\'t hope
that her family becomes a source of transmission.
