# The Owner of Requisitioned Hotels in Wuhan: Helping Others is just Saving Ourselves | People in the Outbreak 1

Originally published in *Jiemian(界面)* magazine on Feb. 6th, 2020

As for the bills during the requisition, Liu Jieyuan, the hotel owner
said, "the government did not provide any information, so I did not
mention it either. Shutting down the hotel would have led to losses
anyway. It is better to accommodate them (the medical staff) here. After
all, they came here to support and help us; we all hope the outbreak
will be contained as soon as possible."

Authored by \| the Outbreak News Group of *Jiemian*

Translation \| Chengji Translation Team

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/owner_of_requistioned_hotels/image3.png" /></p>

<p align="right">Liu Jieyuan is communicating with the reception staff at the hotel. Photo provided by the interviewees.</p>

Waking up at 7 a.m. and going to sleep at 11 p.m., working outside all
day, unlike most people 'imprisoned' at home in Wuhan, Liu has been
particularly busy these days playing the role of a hotel manager, a
driver, a liaison, a buyer, etc. As the owner of five hotels, he grinned
that he had been even busier than his staff members. Three of his five
hotels have been requisitioned to accommodate medical personnel. Liu has
to work a lot on his own due to a shortage of personnel and supplies.

It is Liu's busiest Chinese New Year ever this year since he started his
hotel business in 2010. "In most cases, hotels would not be very busy
from the first day to the sixth day of the Chinese New Year holiday.",
said Liu Jieyuan, "With the epidemic this year, the *Atour Hotel*, in
which I joined and invested, originally planned to close for the holiday
from Jan 23^rd^. However, on the evening of the Chinese New Year's Day
(Jan 25th), a head nurse called me from a hospital, telling me to
prepare for potential requisition."

Although the hotel planned to close on Jan 23^rd^, employees actually
began to leave for home one by one since Jan 20^th^. There were only 3
employees left when Liu received the phone call from the hospital. "Two
of them are on duty; the other could not go back home because of the
lockdown of the city."

To ensure that the hotel can be put into operation at any time, Liu
Jieyuan asked the hotel manager to immediately contact and mobilize
their employees who could return to work. On the evening of Feb 2^nd^,
the manager reported that 4 staff members in total could come back. Most
of the other staff were not in Wuhan and it's very difficult for them to
return. The manager himself was still out of Wuhan.

"There are 7 floors, 165 bedrooms, and 232 beds in my hotel, and a full
staff of 44 employees.", said Liu Jieyuan, "213 medical staff from Xi'an
would arrive on the afternoon of Feb 3^rd^ to support Wuhan, and they
need to be accommodated in my hotel then. We had only 7 people here now,
3 of which are on duty and the other 4 would return to work from home.
We had no choice but to ask another two shareholders to come and help.

Two of the four people who returned to the hotel were picked up by Liu
Jieyuan early in the morning of Feb 3^rd^. "Public transportations were
suspended so no buses or subways were running. I could only drive to
pick them up because I had the pass." After the staff arrived, Liu led
the staff to inspect the water system, electricity, air conditioners, to
prepare room keycards for 165 rooms then separate them based on floors
and room types, and to finish all other preparations by 4pm when the
medical staff would arrive.

The seven employees had a clear division of labor: 2 of them on kitchen
duty, 2 on cleaning, 1 at the reception, 1 on engineering and 1 on
security. However, Liu Jieyuan took on multiple jobs: the hotel manager,
the driver, the liaison, the buyer etc. "I am even busier than my
employees. Fortunately, I'm still physically strong and active. I felt
so depressed when I stayed at home waiting for the command in the past
several days." Liu Jieyuan smiled bitterly.

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/owner_of_requistioned_hotels/image1.png" /></p>

<p align="right">Liu Jieyuan drove hairdressers to the hotel to give the medical staff a haircut. Photo provided by the interviewees</p>

In addition to the *Atour Hotel*, Liu also has four other hotels in
Wuhan, two of which have already been requisitioned. "One is a 40-room
hotel and the other one is a 60-room hotel. It was lucky that the whole
staff was still there." Liu's two sons have been running the two hotels
since the requisition.

"We three men cannot get home all the time and there are only my wife,
my two daughters-in-law and their kids at home, who nag and worry about
us all day long." As Liu was talking to us, he received a call from one
of his daughters-in-law again, asking him to bring some mushrooms and
tomatoes back when he came home. "They always buy their groceries
online, why do they bother me with this? They just wanted me to go
home."

Food supply and hygiene have become the top priorities as more than 200
medical staff moved in. "In terms of food supply, the government agreed
to provide some groceries. We prepared three times more than daily
demand for the bed linens, which can ensure our consumption for the next
few days. The linen company also promised to start its production as
soon as possible. There were also some disposable consumables. I can
transfer more from the other two unrequisitioned hotels in case we run
out of them. We also still have masks and disinfectants in stock at
present." Liu Jieyuan told us that they wouldn't enter the rooms of
medical staff, who are in charge of the cleaning of their own rooms now,
due to the lack of personnel and in order to prevent the
cross-infection.

On the evening of February 4, Liu encountered a difficult problem. The
medical staff asked him for help. They needed haircuts to better fit in
the protective suits. Liu first contacted two barbershops he used to go
to, but both said they were on holiday and couldn't arrange a
hairdresser.

Then he contacted the Jinyintan Hospital, "There are doctors from the
military. I thought soldiers usually have their hair cut themselves so I
wanted to borrow hairdressing tools from them. But they said they have
already sent the tools to the Huoshenshan Hospital."

Liu's son reminded him that his in-law's nephew was a hairdresser, "but
he couldn\'t get into Wuhan because he was in Hanchuan, Xiaogan City. So
finally, the nephew contacted one of his peers in Wuhan. I drove the
hairdresser here to work in our hotel today (Feb 5^th^)." Liu says, I
told him (the barber) in the car that the medical staff came to support
us in Wuhan and asked him not to charge them after arriving at the
hotel. All the bills will be at my expense."

150 or 160 of the over 200 medical staff from Xi'an are females, most of
whom needed a haircut. With his wife's help, the hairdresser started
working in protective suits in the hotel lobby. The medical staff drew
numbers and queued up to get their hair cut, with a dozen people in a
line. Liu Jieyuan got worried looking at them, "How long does it have to
take?" He simply contacted his nephew-in-law again asking for another
hairdresser.

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/owner_of_requistioned_hotels/image2.png" /></p>

<p align="right">Hairdressers in protective suits are giving medical staff a haircut in the hotel lobby. Photo provided by the interviewees.</p>

After that, Liu Jieyuan drove a dozen kilometers to pick up the second
hairdresser. Skyscrapers and wide alleys are ubiquitous in Wuhan City,
but at this time the streets are almost empty. "The impact of the
outbreak on the tourism and hotel industry will not be over in a month
or two,\" Liu said in worry.

"I\'ve been in the hotel business for ten years, starting with managing
a single hotel and later franchised express hotels. I just switched to
managing mid- and high-end hotels last year; immediately I had to deal
with this situation." Liu sighed and continued, "I invested more than 30
million RMB into this hotel. It opened on July 29^th^ (last year) and I
originally planned to earn my investment back in about four years. It
(the outbreak) happened to us exactly when our business was in the
growing phase."

"This hotel (*Atour Hotel*) costs us about 1.2 million RMB per month to
run, including 600 or 700 thousand for the rent and the franchising fee
respectively . The franchising fee can be reduced in such a situation,
and the rent could be postponed. But salaries and social security are
fixed, which account for more than 200,000 RMB a month. There are also
other trivial items such as water and electricity bills."

As for the bills during the requisition, Liu said, "I haven\'t mentioned
it yet, but let\'s put it aside and get through the crisis together. I
believe the CPC and the government will help resolve issues and make
arrangements."

"In a macroscopic view, we seem to be making some contributions and
sacrifices. But in fact, we are actually saving ourselves rather than
solely helping others."

Do not reproduce this article without permission. All rights reserved.
