# Who are the "false-negative" patients of COVID-19?

Originally published in *Southern Weekly (南方周末)* magazine on Feb. 6th, 2020

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/who_are_false_negative/image1.png"></p>

On Jan. 24th, In ICU of Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan University, Medical
staff wrote down their names on isolation suits for recognition.

Tan Wei, deputy director of the Hubei Imaging Society of Integrative
Medicine, said that 30-40% of the cases whose CT results were very
consistent with the new coronavirus pneumonia (i.e. COVID-19) returned
negative on the nucleic acid test.

One patient at a hospital in Hangzhou tested negative for the nucleic
acid reagents six times and only tested positive the seventh time.

Multiple front-line physicians have expressed a similar view that the
most important factor affecting nucleic acid detection is, first and
foremost, sample collection.

A married couple who were tested negative for nucleic acid were admitted
to a designated hospital in Taizhou. The Hospital dared not let them go.
His wife complained every day, \"The country is sure we\'re not sick and
you\'re keeping me here,\" as she was yelling at a nurse in the
isolation ward.

Text \| Tang, Yucheng (汤禹成); Tan, Chang (谭畅) reporters at
*Southern Weekly (南方周末)*; Yan, Liyuan (闫力元) and Jiang, Zhiyu
(蒋芷毓), special contributors at *Southern Weekly (南方周末)*

Editor \| He, Haining (何海宁)

Translation \| Genefy and Walrus from Chengji Translation Team (翻译者要求署名)

Auntie Wu was surprised when she got the result of the nucleic acid
test.

In January 2020, first Auntie Wu and then her son, Li Zhe (pseudonym),
became ill with fever. They had taken CT scans at Wuhan Ninth Hospital
before testing for nucleic acid. The result of the son was a double-lung
infection and the result of Auntie Wu was a double-lung infection with
ground glass opacity. Auntie Wu even took CT scans twice, saying that
she had shown CT results to some doctors, who agreed that Auntie Wu was
highly suspected to have the new coronavirus infection, as her results
were highly consistent with the condition.

The mother and son lived in separate wards for a few days in the
observation room. Every time Li Zhe visited his mother, he could see her
talking on the phone with a different person, hoping for a nucleic acid
test. On January 28th and 29th, they finally got the chance to do the
nucleic acid test twice in a row. On the first day the doctor took a
swab in Wu\'s mouth to take samples and the next day in the nasal
cavity.

Surprisingly, Li Zhe\'s nucleic acid test results were \"positive\".
Auntie Wu, however, who had been more severely ill and started earlier,
was tested \"negative\".

This is not an exception. Earlier, getting a reagent box was \"winning
the lottery\" to the suspected patient. And now it\'s changed. Even if
the symptoms are consistent and CT scans suggest a pulmonary viral
infection, the patient cannot obtain a \"positive\" diagnosis.

This would have been good news but now it is becoming a new concern for
the patient.

Some patients may be true-negative, but others may change to positive
after several tests. They cannot initially be identified as being
infected by the new coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2), which means that they may
have been turned away from hospitals. The condition may suddenly worsen
and there is a risk of infection among those around them.

In February of the new year, there has been a growing number of online
posts asking for help from those who tested negative on nucleic acid
tests. Tan Wei, deputy director of Hubei Medical Imaging Professional
Committee, told *Southern Weekly* reporters that based on his clinical
experience, he believed that 30-40% of the cases whose CT results were
very consistent with the new coronavirus pneumonia (i.e., COVID-19)
tested negative for nucleic acid.

Li Zhe was hospitalized and started to receive in-patient care, but Wu's
case didn\'t go so well. She hasn't been able to do the third nucleic
acid test, nor does she know whether it will turn positive later. As her
condition is becoming more severe, she worries about not getting
hospitalized day and night.

## Positive until the seventh test

\"I really hope my test result was positive\". Auntie Wu said she was
unlucky. If she were positive, there would be a chance to be
hospitalized.

According to her description her condition is deteriorating. When the
first CT scan was taken, Auntie Wu was able to act as usual. And now
she\'s so dependent on oxygen. Her hospital bed in the observation room
is less than three meters from the toilet, but she has to sit for a long
time every time she goes to the bathroom, waiting until her breath is
steady before she dares to walk slowly across it. Having to exhale
through her nose and mouth, she can hardly hold out even for as short a
time as a bathroom break.

In another family, three of the seven members of Wu Xi\'s family have
been diagnosed. Grandpa died the night he was diagnosed. The scarce bed
was left for Grandma who was later diagnosed.

Wu Xi\'s cousin Dou Juan was the only negative patient among those who
had had a nucleic acid test in the family, but her double lung imaging
had shown viral inflammation. She became one of the family members that
Wu Xi was most concerned about. Wu Xi said, \"Two negative tests cannot
rule (her) out; for example, Li Wenliang wasn\'t tested positive until
the third time.

Li Wenliang, as she mentioned, is one of the first \"disinformation\"
doctors to whistleblow the outbreak. Li Wenliang tested for nucleic acid
altogether 3 times. The first result was unknown and the second was
negative. Only the third time was positive. This was what he announced
on his Weibo account that day, 23 days after he got sick.

It\'s not just Wuhan. The medical director of a designated hospital in
Taizhou, Zhejiang told *Southern Weekly* reporters that in a video
conference on February 3, he heard provincial experts talking about that
one patient tested negative for the nucleic acid reagents six times and
did not test positive until the seventh time in a hospital in Hangzhou.

The director\'s hospital had a similar case. A couple who came back from
Wuhan with a fever also reported a lung imaging result showing a viral
infection, although all three tests for nucleic acid were negative.

Nor is it an exception among patients. Several doctors in the affected
areas have confirmed to *Southern Weekly* reporters that there are now
cases where a patient tested negative would turn positive on the nucleic
acid test.

A doctor deployed to the front-line in Wuhan said that the clinical
symptoms and CT images of many patients in his hospital were both
consistent with the new coronavirus pneumonia diagnosis, but among them
there were fewer positive cases than negative ones for nucleic acid
tests.In a statistics table obtained by the *Southern Weekly* reporters,
many negative patients did not undergo a second test.

This doctor explained that the Wuhan Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention (CDC) only gave his hospital a limited quota of 50 tests per
day. There\'s nothing the hospital could do about it. There have also
been patients who were tested again. Some of them remained negative,
although there was also one person who turned positive.

Many negative patients are applying for a second test, including Lin Jun
and his mother. Lin Jun\'s daughter said that the application should be
submitted to the community for approval. \"But it\'s too long to wait\".
They queued up in different hospitals for another nucleic acid test, and
Lin Jun heard there were patients who had been tested negative three
times, too. It took a fourth time to show positive results.

## Faulty throat swab sampling

On February 3rd, a screenshot of a WeChat Moments posted by Zhang
Xiaochun, deputy director of Radiology department at Zhongnan Hospital
of Wuhan University, circulated on the Internet. According to her, CT
imaging should be the main basis for the current 2019-nCoV pneumonia
(i.e., COVID-19) screening in Wuhan outbreak area; at the same time,
asymptomatic or nucleic acid test negative but CT imaging positive
people should be isolated to prevent familial clustering.

She told the press that one of the reasons she posted the Moments was
that some patients who were diagnosed as positive based on CT imaging
returned to their homes because of false-negative nucleic acid test
results, which eventually caused familial clusters.

Why is there a \"false negative\" in the test?

*Southern Weekly* reporters learned that the detection of the new
coronavirus included \"sample collection\", \"viral nucleic acid
extraction\", and \"viral nucleic acid detection\". Each step has an
impact on the outcome.

Multiple front-line doctors have expressed a similar view that the most
important factor affecting nucleic acid detection is, first and
foremost, sample collection. Currently, oral and nasal swabs are the
most common way of collecting samples.

Wang RuiZhi, a front-line medical examiner in Wuhan, said that in the
field it's often said that \"garbage in, garbage out\". He said that
swab sampling, which would involve swabbing the arches of the palate,
pharynx and palate tonsils for secretion to obtain specimens, would work
for the upper respiratory tract, but the new coronavirus was primarily
in the lower respiratory tract. . According to the new Interim Clinical
Guidance for Management of Patients with COVID-19 (by WHO), both upper
and lower respiratory tract specimens should be tested to improve
detection rates. But in Wang\'s observations, because the lower
respiratory tract specimens were relatively difficult to obtain, many
hospitals did not do simultaneous testing.

Another front-line doctor said that swabs were operable and the easiest
to popularize. Phlegm is not always present and extraction of alveolar
lavage involves tracheoscopy, which is not always convenient and renders
the paramedics more susceptible to infection.

Sampling techniques can also affect detection accuracy. One doctor said
that an inexperienced nurse might not be able to obtain a qualified
specimen, leading to a false negative. But a more realistic reason lies
outside of the lack of experience. Tan Wei told *Southern Weekly*
reporters that the nucleic acid test was first performed by the Hubei
CDC. Many of the medical staff were infected because they faced the
patients mouth-to-mouth. Tests have now been extended to more hospitals.
On the one hand, lots of unprofessional people are performing the test,
and the sampling locations they take are not deep enough to reach the
pharynx. More importantly, some people are afraid of getting infected if
they are too close to the patients, which makes it easier for samples to
be collected improperly.

Experimental operation is also a possible factor. Wang Reizhi, who is
familiar with in vitro diagnostic reagents, said the new coronavirus
test had more operational steps, so the experimenters would be more
likely to make mistakes. On top of this, there is a very high number of
specimens currently being tested on a daily basis, which increases the
probability of errors in the operation of the high workload inspectors.

## Hastily prepared reagent kits

Another issue that patients are concerned about is the performance of
the reagent kits.

Wang Ruizhi said the outbreak began with a lack of capacity in the
production of reagent kits. The National Medical Products Administration
(NMPA) had sped up the approval process for reagent kits. Many
manufacturers were speeding up research and development to catch up with
the market. As a result, the performance of many kits was not adequately
tested and evaluated. Generally speaking, It takes 2-3 years from
development to certification before such a reagent can be used in
clinical applications. And the manufacturing process of the reagent kits
will also affect the quality of each batch of the products, which also
influences the stability of the detection effectiveness of different
batches.

The development of the reagent kits was indeed rushed. A staff member at
a company designated to produce the reagent told *Southern Weekly* that
it took less than 20 days for the company to develop the product and get
its license. At first, the company often worked overtime till early in
the morning, but the workers on the production line never stopped. They
had forty or fifty available workers.

\"All the companies were racing against the clock and everyone would say
they were the first to produce it\", said the staff member. On January
26, the reagent kits of four domestic companies passed through the
NMPA's Emergency Approval Channel at record speed, which expedited the
delivery to local centers and hospitals for disease control. The
*Southern Weekly* reporters learned that the NMPA department had
previously assigned two reviewers to each company, providing a 24-hour
question-and-answer period to brief the companies on all aspects of the
approval process.

Now, at the end of the Spring Festival holiday, with most of the
company\'s workers having returned to work by the third day of the Lunar
New Year, the company can reach a production capacity of 200,000 units a
day. But daily production is still based on daily orders from hospitals
and disease control centers.

When *Southern Weekly* reporters asked about the sensitivity of the
kits, the company responded, \"We can only say that our kits are highly
sensitive and specific. The exact data is difficult for almost all
reagent manufacturers to identify." The staff member said that the
company had been very busy lately, and the clinical data had not yet
been collected.

Different companies are also producing different reagent kits. \"Each
company has developed a different process for detecting viral nucleic
acid sites, with different sources of raw materials and different
production procedures. The kits from different companies will certainly
perform differently,\" Wang Ruizhi told *Southern Weekly* reporters.

Jiang Rongmeng, a member of the National Advisory Committee on
Infectious Diseases, suggested that there was another possibility
besides sampling and reagent problems. He believed that the detection of
the virus was also related to the time of the patient\'s onset of
symptoms. Generally speaking, one or two days into the onset of symptoms
would not test as positive as five or six days. \"Even if the reagent
and the sampling are not faulty, the time of onset can also have an
effect. Low viral load during early onset may cause lower possibility of
getting a positive result\" Jiang Rongmeng said the same logic held true
for chest CT diagnoses in which some patients were tested positive for
nucleic acid but lung imaging did not show that. Such patients would
also need to be isolated for observation.

## How to treat \"negative\" patients in Wuhan.

On February 2, Wuhan No.9 Hospital informed Auntie Wu and some other
patients who had been diagnosed as negative that they were being
transferred to another hospital. Auntie Wu said she was too dependent on
the Hospital\'s oxygen supply to go to the lobby for transfer. Then she
contacted several hospitals by herself, and for various reasons, she was
unable to go.

At first, there were seventy or eighty patients in the Observation Room
with Wu. The positive ones were just a few, a total of eight or nine.
Auntie Wu stayed in the Observation Room on the fourth floor for a few
days. The patients were mostly elderly and most of them had a fever.
Lots of them already had difficulty breathing and were taking oxygen.
Other patients close to respiratory failure were still struggling,
emitting loud cries. People died almost every day.

In contrast, the son who has been diagnosed as positive is fortunate.

On the night of February 2, the hospital gave Auntie Wu an ultimatum
that she must leave. Auntie Wu wouldn't even get an injection if she
wouldn't leave.

It was also on February 2, when Wuhan New Coronary Pneumonia Control
Command required the city\'s urban areas to carry out centralized
treatment and isolation on \"four categories of people\". These four
categories of people are: confirmed patients, suspected patients,
patients with fever that cannot be ruled out of the likelihood of
infection, and close contacts of confirmed patients. Many hotels in
Wuhan have been converted into New Coronary Pneumonia Isolation Points.
During the isolation period, free accommodation, medical observation and
treatment are provided in all districts.

But, according to the information that *Southern Weekly* reporters
gathered, the main body of centralized segregation would be mainly
grassroots communities. Many hotels have yet to implement the isolation
plan, and many do not meet medical conditions. Many patients with
negative nucleic acid tests whose condition is yet still developing are
either not placed in isolation or unwilling to go there themselves.

Lin Jun and his mother have been isolated at home from their wives and
daughters, who are still asymptomatic and remain in the living room. Lin
Jun\'s daughter told *Southern Weekly* reporters that at her home in the
Hongshan District, there was no obvious impact of centralized isolation
and no one told them to stay at the hotel.

Wu Xi is also asking the community to coordinate hospital beds for her
aunt. Wu Xi said she had told a lot of people about her family and also
asked for help online. There were a lot of people who contacted her, and
she didn\'t give up on any of the chances, \"So now I face you, and I
told it again," Wu Xi said to the *Southern Weekly* reporters on the
evening of February 4.

Another patient, Mr. Lee, had a rather serious lung infection but tested
negative twice for nucleic acid. His community wanted to put him in a
hotel but they refused because Mr. Lee still needed treatment, which
required seven or eight hours a day in a queue for injections at a
designated hospital . The community couldn't solve that by just putting
them together (in a hotel).

On the front line of treatment, Tan Wei described a sad reality. Some
patients had a negative first and second nucleic acid test but CT images
showed a viral infection. Followed up with a CT examination over time,
they were found to be getting worse. When they rechecked the nucleic
acid and waited until the diagnosis was positive, the patients\'
conditions aggravated and couldn't be saved. The reasons behind, as Tan
Wei pointed out, were that the current shortage of the relevant
medicines would cause the patient who was not seriously ill to not take
such medications. The undiagnosed patients who reached some of the
isolation sites did not have relevant medicines either.

On February 4, *Southern Weekly* reporters called multiple Wuhan
community grid workers to ask what to do with the patients whose lung
images would show a viral infection but the nucleic acid test would be
negative. As a community grid worker said, they did not know how to deal
with the situation. Others responded that Wuhan had no designated
hospitals for such cases.

Comparing to the SARS treatment back then, according to \*The 2004
Edition of the Infectious Atypical Pneumonia Diagnosis and Treatment
Program\*, people with epidemiological evidence of SARS, corresponding
clinical manifestations and lung X-ray imaging changes, and can be ruled
out for other disease diagnoses, can make SARS clinical diagnosis. On
the basis of the clinical diagnosis, the detection of the pathogen can
secure a definite diagnosis. In this Program, clinical diagnosis and
definitive diagnosis are classified as one level and the other two
levels are medical isolation observation and suspected cases,
respectively. Such a hierarchy is more liberal than that of the new
coronavirus pneumonia today, where clinically diagnosed patients would
receive the same level of isolation as those diagnosed.

Mr. Tan also mentioned his own clinical treatment, saying that they
primarily used CT for initial diagnosis. \"Because the nucleic acid test
takes so long, we have to wait a day for the result of the test. For
example, we did a CT scan at first. For a suspected case of mild
symptoms, we would advise him to go to the isolation site. We\'ll treat
a case if he\'s a bit severe. Normally, in five days we\'ll review the
CT scan to see if there\'s a change in imaging\".

## Other more cautious cities

The patient diagnosis has become a heavy pressure of the Wuhan outbreak
area. All involved parties is looking for a solution. Later Zhang
Xiaochun also stressed to the medical media, *Ding Xiang Yuan,* that
\"Wuhan as an outbreak area cannot completely rely on nucleic acid
testing to screen patients at this stage and achieve the prevention and
control effect of cutting off the source of infection... The suggestion
I made is only suitable for our outbreak area, not for ordinary and
sporadic cases screening. Screening for ordinary and/or sporadic cases
requires differential diagnosis, which CT imaging cannot achieve.\"

In other cities, diagnosing seems more cautious.

Shanghai, thousands of miles away, has far fewer infections than Wuhan,
where everything seems manageable. The nucleic acid test is still
performed by the CDC and can be booked daily at the hospital. A
respiratory physician at a Shanghai 3A Hospital told *Southern Weekly*
reporters that now there were strict controls on the detection of
nucleic acid. Only those with an indication on CT Imaging will be
permitted to test. If the image matches the characteristics of viral
pneumonia, and there\'s an epidemiological history and the leukocytes
and lymphocytes are found to be low, \"This type of patient cannot be
released even if the nucleic acid test is negative for the first time.
Instead, they should be observed in the isolation ward and even treated
with medication. A few days after they should be tested the nucleic acid
again. Very few patients might need to test more times."

Two cities in Zhejiang, Wenzhou and Taizhou, have gradually become
serious outbreak areas. A married couple who were tested negative for
nucleic acid were admitted to a designated hospital in Taizhou. The
Hospital dared not let them go. \"Even tested negative, we dare not let
them go." Said the director of the aforementioned medical section. The
wife complained every day, \"The country is sure we\'re not sick and
you\'re keeping me here,\" as she was yelling at a nurse in the
isolation ward. The nurse felt aggrieved and asked the director to
persuade him, and the director talked to the patient for half an hour to
soothe her emotions.

The director told *Southern Weekly* reporters that although the negative
results of the two tests met the criteria for exclusion, they were not
clinically excluded. \"We usually treat him until he basically would
show no symptoms on scans or his indicators in lymphocytes would have
returned to normal. Then he'd test for nucleic acids. If there is no
problem then he can go home\".

Several doctors have mentioned that the condition is evolving. The
director quoted above analyzed the condition of a woman patient, who,
tested negative on the nucleic acid test, had some of the lesions
receding while another part growing, such that not all lesions would
come out at once.

He also felt the pace of nucleic acid testing quickening. Earlier, the
nucleic acid test was performed by the CDC in the local prefecture-level
city. As the number of patients being tested increased, it became the
responsibility of the county\'s centers for disease control. And now the
county centers for disease control can confirm the diagnosis once the
patients are tested positive.

Facing a positive result, doctors are more decisive. A patient\'s lung
CT imaging did not have any abnormalities. Just because he had a slight
cough after returning from Wuhan, he tested for nucleic acid which
turned out positive. The director mentioned above judged him to be an
upper respiratory infection of the coronavirus. Although there were no
abnormalities in the lung CT imaging, he must be isolated.

In fact, experts in disease prevention and control are also debating how
to confirm the diagnosis. In an interview with *Southern Weekly*
reporters, most experts agreed that diagnosis would be best to have a
pathological result. Some experts, however, thought that this would be
more difficult in practice in Wuhan. The complexity of the new
coronavirus infection requires doctors to synthesize more tests and make
more careful judgments. Jiang Rongmeng pointed out to *Southern Weekly*
reporters that imaging diagnosis could be used as an auxiliary way. \"CT
imaging with no indicators cannot necessarily rule out (a case), but the
presence of indicators cannot necessarily be attributed to this disease
either. From the point of view of clinical diagnosis, imaging is always
a pathway for auxiliary diagnosis , and pathogenic diagnosis should
always be the focus\".

On February 5, the National Health Commission released the \"New
Coronavirus Infected Pneumonia Diagnosis and Treatment Scheme (Trial
Version V)\". The criteria for \"suspected cases\" have relaxed. Whether
there is a history of epidemiology or not, as long as a case has
satisfied two clinical manifestations, the \"fever and/or respiratory
symptoms\" and \"in early stages total leukocytes at normal or decreased
levels, or decreased lymphocyte count \", it can be considered as a
suspected case. More importantly, it has added a new \"clinically
diagnosed cases\" besides the \"suspected cases\" and \"confirmed
cases\", limiting it to the Hubei Province. This means that the results
of CT imaging in Hubei Province can be used as the basis for the
diagnosis of \"clinical cases\".
