# Shanghai Institute of Materia Medica in the Storm of \'Shuanghuanglian\': Invested in 10 Companies, and also Had Some Discoveries during SARS Outbreak

Originally published in *Southern Metropolics Daily(南方都市报)* on Feb. 3nd, 2020

Author \| Feng, Congyin (封聪颖)

Chief Editor \| Dong, Xiangyi (董湘依)

Online Editor \| Zhong, Yi (中一)

Translation \| Chengji Translation Team

A media article called "Preliminary discovery that Shuanghuanglian Oral
Liquid, a traditional Chinese medicine, could inhibit the novel
coronavirus", distributed by The Shanghai Institute of Materia Medica,
Chinese Academy of Sciences (SIMM), causes a media backlash.

SIMM has long been engaged in research on antiviral drugs. SARS hit the
world in 2003. At that time, \"*Capital Medicine Journal*\" and other
media reported that SIMM confirmed \"Jie'eryin (a traditional Chinese
medicine for external use) has an antiviral effect on SARS
coronavirus.\"

After the outbreak of COVID-19 this time, SIMM organized an emergency
research team and announced 30 classical drugs and traditional Chinese
medicines which are likely to inhibit the SARS-CoV-2 virus. They are
also in collaboration with \'Frontiers Biotechnology\', a pharmaceutical
company, on the development of new antiviral drugs for SARS-CoV-2.

On Feb 1st, in an interview with CCTV, Zhang Boli, an academician of the
Chinese Academy of Engineering, who was also a medical expert in the
central guide group for outbreak prevention, said that Shuanghuanglian
Oral Liquid could only help to regulate the status of the human body,
but not cure for SARS-CoV-2.

On that evening of the day, SIMM posted a declaration on its official
website, which claimed that the article named \"SIMM and Wuhan Institute
of Virology cooperated to discover the antiviral function of the
traditional Chinese medicine Shuanghuanglian on suppressing SARS-CoV-2\"
provided by them and the WIV (Wuhan Institute of Virology) for media on
Jan 31st, was accurate. The spokesman of SIMM explained that "This
conclusion is based on in vitro results in the laboratory. Our research
group performed the in vitro experiments and verified Shuanghuanglian
has the function of repressing SARS-CoV-2. They need clinical trials in
the next step to further verify the conclusion again. The article I
provided also mentioned that we are now carrying out clinical trials."

## Used to Claim that \'Jie'eryin\' could Repress the SARS Virus

According to the introductions on their official website, SIMM\'s
predecessor was the Institute of Medicine of National Beiping Academy,
founded in Beijing in 1932, and moved to Shanghai the next year. In
2003, SIMM was moved to the Zhangjiang High-Tech Park in Shanghai
Pudong. It is the most historical comprehensive institute for medical
innovation.

As an institute that has long been researching on antiviral drugs, they
announced that \"Jie'eryin\" also had the antiviral effect for SARS
coronavirus during the SARS outbreak 17 years ago.

An article named \"Research Results on Antiviral Effect for SARS of
Jie'eryin\" was published on Vol. 12 of *Capital Medicine Journal* in
2003. It was mentioned in the article that, \"The antiviral effect of
Jie'eryin lotion for SARS virus, has been confirmed by the latest
research results from the National Center of Medical Innovation,
Shanghai Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Science: It can
inhibit SARS virus in vitro at only 1% of the original concentration.\"

According to the literature, *Capital Medicine Journal* was the official
journal of Beijing Medical Products Administration and was also the
guiding journal of medicine management and medical work in Beijing.

It is shown in a public report that the main functions of \"Jie'eryin\"
include treating dry skins or wet skins, killing worms and relieving the
itch. Till now, the report is still available on the website of Chengdu
Enwei Group, the producer of the \"Jie'eryin\" lotion.

After the outbreak of COVID-19 this time, SIMM responded actively again.
They organized an emergency research team, announced 30 classic drugs
and traditional Chinese medicines which have the potential to repress
SARS-CoV-2, based on their previous experiences of drug research for
SARS. Also, according to the news from Frontiers Biotechnology (Nanjing)
Co. Ltd on Jan 30th, they started a collaboration with SIMM on the
development of antiviral drugs for SARS-CoV-2. Based on their contract,
Frontiers Biotechnology holds the exclusive rights of clinical
development, production, manufacture, and commercialization of the
candidate drug for SARS-CoV-2, \'DC series\', in mainland China.

On the evening of Jan 31st, some media reported that SIMM and WIV had a
preliminary discovery that the traditional Chinese medicine,
Shuanghuanglian Oral Liquid, can inhibit SARS-CoV-2t.

However, this discovery was subsequently questioned. On Feb 1st,
People\'s Daily posted on their official Weibo account that inhibition
does not mean prevention or treatment, and reminded people \"not to snap
up Shuanghuanglian Oral Liquid or take it on one\'s own\".

On the same day, in an interview with CCTV, Zhang Boli, an academician
of the Chinese Academy of Engineering, who was also a medical expert in
the central guide group for outbreak prevention, said that
Shuanghuanglian is just a common traditional Chinese medicine and is
composed of three herbs -honeysuckle, baicalein, and forsythia, which
can only regulate the inner balance of bodies but has no specific effect
on SARS-CoV-2.

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/image1.jpg" /></p>

SIMM also told the media that they only did a preliminary experiment. It
still requires a great number of experiments to verify if
Shuanghuanglian can cure patients.

Apart from scientific research, SIMM also invests in external companies.

Tianyancha, a data technology service company with a vast repository of
Chinese enterprise information, showed that SIMM invested in 10
companies in total, covering industries of TCM manufacturing, medical
consultation, healthcare products, biotechnologies, etc.

At present, most of its companies have been canceled. The only two that
are still running or subsisting are Shanghai Chuangyao Investment Co
Ltd. and Beijing Huashi-Tianfu Biotechnology Co. Ltd. The proportions of
investments by SIMM are 100% and 9.4%, respectively., respectively.

## Partner Companies Made Fake Advertisements

The official website of SIMM shows that they have been collaborating
with medicine companies all the time.

One of their collaborators, Shanghai Green Valley Pharmaceutical Co.
Ltd, has been criticized. The website of Green Valley Pharmaceutical Co.
shows that it was founded in 1997, and has a close relationship with
SIMM. SIMM is the long term \'core strategic partner\' of Green Valley
Pharmaceutical, which also set up a \'Green Valley Innovation
Foundation\' in SIMM to support the development of new drugs. Moreover,
the scientific decision committee of Green Valley Pharmaceutical
includes Ding Jian, the sixth director (from 2004 to 2013) of SIMM and
Geng Meiyu, the vice president of the academic committee of SIMM.
Tianyancha reveals that Ding Jian is now the vice-chairman of Green
Valley Pharmaceutical, while Geng Meiyu worked as a board member of
Green Valley Pharmaceutical from April 2015 and September 2018.

There is also some evidence indicating the relationship between SIMM and
Green Valley is beyond normal collaboration.

Two media reports published on the website of SIMM in 2015 and 2017
pointed out that Green Valley Pharmaceutical is a joint venture invested
by SIMM and the Green Valley Group together. Tianyancha shows that SIMM
withdrew its investments from the company on June 20, 2018. It is now
wholly owned by the Green Valley Group.

Public information shows that the Green Valley Group started from
selling health care products, and was officially founded in 1997 by Lu
Songtao, the chairman of Green Valley Pharmaceutical. One of their main
health care products was suspicious of fake advertisements.

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/image2.jpg" /></p>

In January 2008, a news story revealing the secret \"Green Valley\" scam
was broadcast on CCTV (China Central Television). It said Green Valley
Group had launched three generations of so-called cancer products since
1996. They are Chinese Ganoderma Powder, Shuangling Guben Powder, and
Green Valley Ganoderma Powder.

The Green Valley Group has been changing the names for more than 10
years to promote the fake products, and also published product
advertisements without approval by drug administration. This scam became
one of the most typical cases of fake advertisements all over the
country in the 2000s.

According to the report, the case has been confirmed by the National
Medical Products Administration. A series of advertisements produced by
Green Valley for their cancer drugs referred to many research institutes
and scholars and experts to promote the anti-cancer effect of their
products. For instance, when they were promoting the Green Valley
Ganoderma Powder, its advertisement mentioned that \"SIMM's in vitro
experiments have verified that Green Valley Ganoderma Powder has an
obvious repressing effect on solid tumors, leukemia, and lymphoma
cells.\"

In the next year of CCTV\'s report, another report from *Liberty Daily*
revealed that Green Valley Pharmaceutical has signed a
tens-of-millions-dollar contract with SIMM, which granted them the
rights of the global development of \'GV-971\'. But the annual income of
Green Valley Pharmaceutical was only 10 million RMB (\~1.4 million USD)
at that time.

The development of 'GV-971' lasted for 10 years. In early November 2019,
the National Medical Products Administration approved the new medicine
for Alzheimer\'s disease, GV-971 launched by Green Valley
Pharmaceuticals, to be sold in the markets. The major inventor of the
drug was Geng Meiyu\'s research group.

A letter in the name of \"Rao Yi\" to Li Jinghai, committee principle of
the National Natural Science Foundation of China (NSFC), went into
public sight on November 29th, 2019. It pointed out that Geng Meiyu\'s
research paper on GV-971 was suspicious of academic fraud. Later, Rao Yi
told the media that he \"did not send out that letter, but he did write
a draft\". On the other hand, NSFC told the media it was under
investigation.
