# Li Wenliang: An ordinary person

Originally published in *Portrait(人物)* magazine on Feb 07, 2020

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/liwenliang_an_ordinary_person/image1.png" /></p>

*He once made a New Year's wish. In the new year, he hoped to be a
simple person, to appreciate the complexity of the world without having
it contaminate the heart, and to maintain a sufficiently peaceful state
of mind. "The unexamined life is not worth living", he also noted, and
he hoped we could all encourage each other to realize our values. His
WeChat signature was, \"All theory is gray, but the tree of life springs
evergreen.\"*

Text \| Luo, Ting (罗婷); Yang, Zhou (杨宙); Luo, Qian (罗芊)

Edit \| Tang, Qi (糖槭)

Translation \| Chengji Translation Team

## 1

At 11 p.m. last night, when *Portrait* reporters rushed to the inpatient
building of the Central Hospital of Wuhan (CHW), Houhu Branch, two of
Dr. Li Wenliang \'s university classmates had already been waiting there
for half an hour. Both of them were medical doctors in Wuhan as well.
They were entrusted by the whole class to come and visit him there. But
they could not enter, because it had already passed the visiting hours
and the entrance of the building was blocked.

It was late at night, and the building was still very bright. The ICU
where Li was being rescued was on the 2^nd^ floor, while a few floors
above stayed his parents, who were also infected. The classmates worried
about them and called Li's father, hoping that they could go and look
after them, though the request was turned down by the hospital staff,
who was with Li's father at that time. They then called Li's pregnant
wife, who was not in Wuhan, to find her anxious and concerned, yet
having no access to the latest updates. They told her, "If there is any
news, I will definitely call you as soon as possible."

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/liwenliang_an_ordinary_person/image2.png" /></p>

<p align="right">The main building of the Central Hospital of Wuhan.</a>

The time was just after midnight, and the efforts to rescue Li continued
on. But still, one of the nurses in the building, thinly clad, went down
to the 1^st^ floor alone and bursted into tears. Leaning against the
wall at first, then crouching on the ground, sobbing. The cries, so
clearly audible even from ten meters away, echoed in the quiet hospital
halls in the dead of the night.

The classmates talked about Li's clinical condition. Although he
appeared to be in good spirits when interviewed by the press a few days
ago, Li, in fact, had been on the ventilator since more than ten days
ago. One of the classmates said, "This was a very bad sign."

Yesterday afternoon, Li was transferred from the CHW's Nanjing Road
Branch to the Houhu Branch. According to this classmate of his, this was
because Li's condition had required the use of ECMO (Extracorporeal
Membrane Oxygenation), which the Nanjing Road Branch could no longer
offer -- all of their ECMO equipment had already been sent to the
Jinyintan Hospital. But there was one left in the Houhu Branch, which
could save his life. In another version of the story on the Internet,
even this last ventilator was borrowed from another hospital.

Was his condition so severe that he needed to use extracorporeal lungs?
"Actually, he should have used it much earlier", said the classmate.

Dr. Wu Yan from the CHW told *Portrait* late last night that ever since
he was transferred to the Houhu Branch yesterday afternoon, Li had been
in a terrible condition. " The transfer was not suitable and the risk of
this transfer was high. He was brought here in the evening and shortly
experienced respiratory failure and needed a breathing tube. Eventually
we couldn't save him. Even though both his breathing and heartbeat had
stopped and there was no vital sign after three hours of external
cardiac compression, he was still put on ECMO. Now we are not allowed to
pronounce him dead."

"I know that he's most likely gone, but I still hope that the rumors on
the Internet are true, that ECMO can do wonders," this doctor told
*Portrait* at 00:43 this morning.

"My knowledge tells me that it is basically impossible, but I still
somehow feel that there may be miracles," the doctor explained with his
medical common sense, "Normally, clinical death can be declared if
breathing and heartbeat have stopped for 3 hours. But we managed to get
an ECMO machine, maintaining the circulation."

According to *Caixin*, the rescue was still going on at 2 a.m. At 3:48
a.m., the CHW posted a message on their official *Weibo* account: "Li
Wenliang, an ophthalmologist in our hospital, was unfortunately infected
in the battle against the 2019-nCOV pneumonia outbreak. He died after
full rescue at 2:58 a.m. on February 7, 2020." Three hours of external
cardiac compression, and at least 3 hours of ECMO, did no wonders.

Prior to this, at 11:25 p.m. last night, the World Health Organization
had already tweeted(later deleted): "We are deeply saddened by the
passing of Dr Li Wenliang. We all need to applaud the work that he did
on fighting \#2019nCOV."

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/liwenliang_an_ordinary_person/image3.png" /></p>

<p align="right">Dr. Li Wenliang</p>

## 2

Li Wenliang's college classmates told *Portrait* that, on the afternoon
of December 30, 2019, it was in their WeChat class group that Li
notified everyone: "There were 7 confirmed cases of SARS at Huanan
Seafood Market, and they were being quarantined in the emergency
department of the Houhu Branch of our hospital." Half an hour later, he
added, "The latest news is, it has been confirmed that they are
coronavirus infections, but the exact virus is being subtyped. Alert
your family and relatives."

As doctors, they believed in Li. He had been practicing for many years
and his judgment was unlikely to be wrong. It was also because of Li's
warning that they had started to implement protective procedures since
then, to stock N95 masks and to wear protective suits at work. Not many
people knew about it at the time, and the masks were still easily
available. It was this batch of medical supplies that protected some
doctors at the beginning of the outbreak and met their urgent needs when
the supplies later ran short.

After Li was admonished, the classmates all learned about it. They grew
more cautious, and no longer talked about the new virus on WeChat, but
only in oral communications. The word got out, and the Post-80s young
doctors in particular started to protect themselves. "Therefore he
really saved a lot of people," said one classmate.

Before the admonishment, Li was not a well-known doctor in the hospital.
Wu Yan, a young doctor in another department, had never heard of his
name or met him in person before. "I only knew of him for being accused
of spreading rumors. The admonishment aroused our indignation, and later
I heard that he was infected... He was infected while being disciplined,
and his whole family fell sick too. He was said to be under a great deal
of pressure. We were very happy for him when he was eventually
vindicated."

Wu sincerely admired Li's courage, "I only know that he told the truth
and said things that many people didn't dare to say. But he didn't
deserve the punishment he got, and suffered a great deal both physically
and psychologically."

This was the night when Dr. Wu's WeChat Moments was flooded with posts
of mourning candles. Li Wenliang was still not pronounced dead at the
time when Wu was talking with *Portrait*, although his heartbeat had
stopped 3 hours ago. "We all know that when we mourn for Dr. Li, we are
just as much mourning for ourselves," said Wu.

At 1 a.m., Li's college classmates were still navigating themselves in
the locked-down inpatient building, looking for potentially through
pathways. They were hoping to go up to the floor where Li's parents
stayed, at least to take a look at them to see if they were okay. They
kept trying for 2 hours, with no success.

As they were searching, they passed by walls decorated with the glorious
history of the CHW, and a wall with the Hospital's motto: It is the
Hospital's bounden duty to save lives and heal wounds. People get ill
everyday \-- some suffer from pain; some wither and fade away. The most
valuable revelation it brings to us are awe and love. To stand in awe of
life is to treat the ill as family, to nurture their health, to take
people's welfare as the foremost concern, and to treat our staff with
genuine sincerity.

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/liwenliang_an_ordinary_person/image4.png" /></p>

<p align="right">Li Wenliang’s profile picture on Renren.com</p>

## 3

Dr. Li Wenliang's Weibo documented his spirited yet ordinary daily life.

He was a foodie, who often joked that his "appetite is fiercer than a
tiger". When his craving for oranges arose, he braved heavy rain and
winds, running 1,000 meters in his slippers to buy them. At the sight of
a vibrant display of assorted ice creams, he resignedly remarked, "*Kao*
*(Fuck)*, it's too much temptation." Izakayas and Haidilao Hot Pot are
among the favorites, and he said he loved wasabi and sashimi so very
much. He also loved fried chicken. Every time he went to the train
station, he'd order a Crispy Drumstick from Dicos (a Chinese fast-food
restaurant chain), which, as he described, "a large drumstick attached
to the thigh, it was simply satisfying just to look at it. Crispy skin
and tender meat, dipped in the signature chili powder, it's absolutely
superb fried chicken! A timely glass of coke and I'm in heaven."

He closely followed TV shows, such as *Joy of Life (a hit Chinese TV
series)*. He is no stranger to fandom as well. He recently became a fan
of Xiao Zhan, for Xiao's handsome looks and gorgeous vocals particularly
when performing the song *Green Light*. When the price of cherries rose
to 316 yuan/kg, he jokingly complained that he couldn\'t afford them;
when only a few oranges cost him 30 yuan, he called himself a "*Diaosi*"
*(a loser)* to joke about the hardship of living. On Weibo, he was a
frequent participant in the online lottery games, reposting messages to
win a phone, a car, and even cherries. Finally for once, breaking the
spell as being shielded from all good fortunes, he won a box of wet
wipes, for which he specifically posted another message just to thank
the benefactor.

Working as a doctor is very hard. From time to time, he would complain
about his work, \"I'm tired to death.\" He would often say \"I'm
quitting", complaining that he had to work on a three-day shift, \"I'm
dying\", \"I hate the clinic\", looking forward to eating Double Cooked
Pork after work. But should he be asked to leave, he couldn\'t bear to
take off his white coat. He thought to himself, \"The patient could
abuse me a thousand times, but I'd still treat the patient like my first
love.\"

Scrolling through his Weibo posts, you may find him kind of adorable.
This ophthalmologist seems to have a little boy in his heart, teasing
and poking fun on social media, casually dropping words like "*ni ma*",
"*wo qu*", and "*kao*" *(all typical but mild Chinese swear words)*. He
once pondered whether hens would feel pain laying eggs. When one time he
saw a butterfly, he deemed it noteworthy enough to merit a picture and a
post on social media, with the caption: A butterfly. In his leisure
time, he enjoyed taking short walks, going to the canola fields, as well
as playing badminton. When referred to as "Uncle" instead of "Brother",
he got "mad" and felt "hurt". He also liked to pull pranks; there was
one time that before checking out of a hotel, he shaped up the quilt as
if someone was still in the bed, to give the cleaning staff a good
scare.

If asked which season he liked most, he'd say autumn. He liked the
morning on an autumn day, when the sun shone through the green leaves,
casting starry shadows on the ground. He once described autumn in Wuhan
like this -- "It's got an unyielding tenderness that's neither too warm
nor too cold. In this season, you will appreciate the lightest drizzles
and the gentlest winds, and can certainly further experience the
breathtaking beauty of the scattered fallen leaves crunching and
crackling away underfoot."

Dr. Li Wenliang had also shared heartwarming moments of him with his
family. When one time the weather was nice, with his wife and child
around him, his parents came for a visit, and took the high-speed rail
when they left. He made sure to take pictures of the train as
memorabilia.

He once made a New Year's wish. In the new year, he wished to be a
simple person, to appreciate the complexity of the world without having
it contaminate the heart, and to maintain a sufficiently peaceful state
of mind. "The unexamined life is not worth living", he also noted, and
he hoped that we could all encourage each other to realize our values.
His WeChat signature was, \"All theory is gray, but the tree of life
springs evergreen.\"

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/liwenliang_an_ordinary_person/image5.png" /></p>

<p align="right">The cover image of Li Wenliang’s WeChat Moments.</p>

But at the same time, he also cared about social issues. He spoke up for
the Wang Qinglei, who led the critical reporting on the Wenzhou
high-speed train crash accident, and appealed to the public to collect
signatures to reinstate Wang. On February 1, he agreed to an interview
with *Caixin*. Even after having been admonished, after both his parents
and himself were infected, he still chose to express himself
courageously, saying that "A healthy society should not consist of only
one voice."

On the same day, his nucleic acid test result came out positive. "The
dust has settled," he posted on Weibo, "the diagnosis has finally been
confirmed," followed by an emoji of a Husky tilting its head, with its
tongue sticking out. In his ward he saw online the encouraging messages
from many netizens, and thanked everyone on Weibo, "Thank everyone for
your support. My license has not been revoked. Please rest assured that
I will actively cooperate with the medical treatment and strive for
early discharge."

Prior to this, when doctors in his WeChat work group were summoned to
report to the frontline positions, he replied, "I'll sign up when I get
better." In another WeChat screenshot circulating online, someone asked
him, "What plans do you have after you recover from this?" To which he
replied, "To the frontline right away. The epidemic is still spreading,
and I don't want to be a deserter."

(As required by the interviewee, Wu Yan was used as a pseudonym.)

<p align="center"><img src="imgs/liwenliang_an_ordinary_person/image6.png" /></p>

    Dear friends, 
    you may never hear from me henceforth
    for I’m leaving to save the planet earth
    -- Li Wenliang’s Weibo, December 21, 2012

<p align="right">From WeChat Official Account ZaZheng</p>
